Title: Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.17406v1

Published Time: Wed, 17 Jun 2026 00:23:01 GMT

Number of Pages: 24

Markdown Content:
# Preprint of Paper accepted for publication in the Journal of the Brazilian Computer Society (JBCS) 

# Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation 

Marina Chagas Bulach Gapski * [ São Paulo State University (UNESP), Rio Claro, Brazil | marina.gapski@unesp.br ]

Vinicius Atsushi Sato Kawai * [ São Paulo State University (UNESP), Rio Claro, Brazil | vinicius.kawai@unesp.br ]

Gustavo Rosseto Leticio * [ São Paulo State University (UNESP), Rio Claro, Brazil | gustavo.leticio@unesp.br ]

Lucas Pascotti Valem * [ University of São Paulo (USP), São Carlos, Brazil | lucas@icmc.usp.br ]

Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette * [ São Paulo State University (UNESP), Rio Claro, Brazil | daniel.pedronette@unesp.br ]

Mohand Said Allili * [ Université du Québec en Outaouais | mohandsaid.allili@uqo.ca ]

* Department of Statistics, Applied Mathematics, and Computing (DEMAC), São Paulo State University (UNESP), Av. 24 A, Rio Claro, SP, 13506-900, Brazil. * Institute of Mathematics and Computer Science (ICMC), University of São Paulo (USP), Av. Trabalhador São-carlense, 400 - Centro, São Carlos, SP, 13566-590, Brazil. * Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Quebec in Outaouais (UQO), 101 St-Jean Bosco, Gatineau, Quebec, J8X 3X7, Canada. 

Accepted: 08 June 2026 

Abstract. Feature extraction involves the identification and extraction of salient characteristics or patterns, including edges, textures, shapes, and color attributes. Contemporary feature extractors predominantly leverage deep learning architectures, such as Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Vision Transformers (VITs). The availability of diverse feature extractors in the literature provides a wide range of feature representations. Features extracted from an image depend on the specific application, the chosen extractor, and its configuration. Therefore, integrat-ing complementary information by combining distinct extractors offers a promising way to enhance performance. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), particularly Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs), have emerged as powerful and widely adopted approaches for semi-supervised image classification, as they effectively leverage both labeled and unlabeled data while exploiting the underlying graph structures that capture relationships among samples. This study proposes a novel approach for GNNs in scenarios where labeled data is scarce, by integrating diverse sets of feature and graph representations derived from various extractors in classification scenarios. Experimental in-vestigations were conducted, encompassing combinations of distinct feature and graph extractors, as well as rank aggregation strategies. The primary contributions of this work are underscored by the experimental findings, which demonstrate that the strategic combination of feature and graph representations, coupled with the application of manifold learning for graph processing, leads to significant improvements in classification accuracy across the ma-jority of experimental conditions. Furthermore, the utilization of rank aggregation techniques to integrate features from different extractors was shown to enhance classification accuracy. 

Keywords: Semi-supervised image classification, Graph Neural Networks, Feature Fusion, Rank Aggregation 

# 1 Introduction 

In recent years, the volume of multimedia data has experi-enced an exponential increase. Daily, millions of individu-als share images, videos, and audio across various platforms. Given the vast amount of available content, tasks that were once performed manually have become impractical due to fi-nancial, labor, and time constraints [Tripathi and King, 2024]. Consequently, classification methodologies capable of ad-dressing scenarios characterized by limited labeled data, such as semi-supervised and weakly supervised learning, have be-come increasingly crucial. The acquisition of labeled data is often resource-intensive and time-consuming, necessitating the development of efficient and robust classification strate-gies. In the domain of image data processing, feature extrac-tion methodologies are widely employed across numerous tasks. As the pace of multimedia content creation continues to accelerate, machine learning techniques have emerged as highly promising solutions for classification tasks. Super-vised methods can significantly reduce processing time; how-ever, they present a major challenge: the need for large vol-umes of labeled data. In datasets containing millions of im-ages, this requirement becomes a substantial obstacle. This challenge is central to the effectiveness of semi-supervised and unsupervised learning strategies, which are designed to function with limited or no labeled data. Semi-Supervised Learning (SSL) [Chapelle et al., 2006] occupies a position between supervised and unsupervised learning. In SSL, the algorithm is provided with both unla-beled data and some labeled information, learning from both. In some scenarios, labeled data might be scarce, for exam-ple, 20% or 10% of the total dataset. Typically, this super- 

> arXiv:2606.17406v1 [cs.CV] 16 Jun 2026 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026

vised information consists of labels associated with a subset of the data points [Chapelle et al., 2006]. This approach sig-nificantly reduces the manual effort required, as only a small proportion of the data needs to be labeled manually. As a result, semi-supervised and unsupervised methods can save considerable time and labor in tasks that were previously re-liant on manual processing [Valem et al., 2023]. The applications of classification tasks are vast and en-compass a wide range of data types, including audio, video, and images. Image datasets containing millions of items, along with frequent updates, stand to benefit significantly from semi-supervised and unsupervised classification tech-niques. Examples of such datasets include collections of images representing different flower species [Nilsback and Zisserman, 2006], various dog breeds [Khosla et al., 2011], and car brands [Dehghan et al., 2017], among others. These datasets mirror real-world challenges and provide valuable opportunities for evaluating diverse classification strategies. Presently, applications leveraging these strategies are increas-ingly prevalent in daily life. One example is photo organiz-ing applications that automatically identify people, animals, places, and objects in images, serving millions of users and managing thousands of new entries daily. Social media plat-forms also stand to gain from the use of neural networks [Ar-gyris et al., 2020]. The wide range of applications has led to the development of numerous models and feature extractors. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) [Krizhevsky et al., 2012; Albawi et al., 2017], which employ various types of layers, such as convolutional, non-linear, and pooling layers, among others, have become a staple in image classification tasks. More recently, Transformer-based models have also been utilized for feature extraction, with notable examples including VIT-B16 [Dosovitskiy et al., 2021] and SWIN-TF [Liu et al., 2021]. A promising approach involves combining multiple feature extractors to obtain complementary insights from the same dataset. This is because different extractors evaluate and extract the most relevant features based on their own models, which may result in discrepancies in their interpreta-tions of the data. From an alternative perspective, graph-based models and convolutional networks have been proposed, yielding impres-sive results. Specifically, a type of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), the Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) [Kipf and Welling, 2017; Wu et al., 2019] are capable of per-forming convolutions in the non-Euclidean domain defined by graphs, demonstrating considerable effectiveness in semi-supervised classification tasks. Unlike most traditional classifiers, GNNs not only rely on input features but also require a graph structure for learning. Graphs, which represent relationships and connections be-tween entities, are highly versatile and can be used to iden-tify and analyze patterns within data. GCNs are particularly well-suited for semi-supervised classification because they can leverage both labeled and unlabeled data, taking advan-tage of the graph structure and neighborhood information to enrich the learning process. Initially, GCNs were designed for datasets where the graph structure is inherently available, such as citation net-works [Sen et al., 2008; Kipf and Welling, 2017]. How-ever, in the context of image datasets, the graph typically needs to be computed beforehand. Learning effective rep-resentations is central to a wide range of machine learning applications [Uelwer et al., 2023]. Over the past decade, various feature extractors have been proposed, ranging from hand-crafted methods (e.g., color, texture, and shape) to deep learning-based approaches (e.g., CNNs and Vision Trans-formers). These extractors are employed to compute feature vectors that capture the most relevant and discriminative in-formation in an image. It is well-established that different extractors can yield complementary information [Piras and Giacinto, 2017], meaning that combining multiple extractors can lead to en-hanced results under certain conditions. However, the chal-lenge lies in determining how to effectively combine these different extractors. The literature suggests two primary strategies for this: early fusion and late fusion [Piras and Gi-acinto, 2017]. Early fusion involves directly combining fea-tures at the initial stages, while late fusion integrates features at higher levels, such as matrices, graphs, or ranked lists. This work proposes a novel approach that combines dif-ferent feature extractors. Taking into account the properties of GNN models, which have two distinct inputs (e.g., a set of features and a graph), we leverage this characteristic to integrate graphs and features from various extractors, thus exploiting their complementary strengths. The key contri-butions of this work to the field of semi-supervised image classification using GNNs are as follows: • An exploration of the benefits of combining graphs and feature sets from multiple extractors demonstrates that this combination can enhance classification perfor-mance by capitalizing on the complementary informa-tion each extractor provides. • The application of manifold learning re-ranking tech-niques to further improve the input graph for GNNs, par-ticularly when utilizing multiple graphs and feature sets. • An analysis indicating that GCNs are more sensitive to the input graph than to the feature sets, highlighting the importance of constructing a highly effective graph for optimal performance in these applications. • An experimental evaluation showing superior classifica-tion results in most scenarios, emphasizing the effective-ness of our approach in environments with limited la-beled data. This paper is an extension of previous work [Gapski et al., 2024] with more experiments, GNN models, and datasets. It also proposes a novel approach for rank aggregation, produc-ing a graph from multiple features. Rank aggregation is a process used to combine multiple rankings of items into a single, consistent order. It aims to find the most represen-tative ranking by considering various input rankings, each potentially provided by different sources or algorithms. The goal is to merge these rankings in a way that minimizes in-consistencies and maximizes agreement across all of them. This work also introduces combinations with rank aggrega-tion techniques between features and graphs, which showed improved results. Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

# 2 Related work 

## 2.1 Feature fusion for image classification 

Due to the immense volume of data, semi-supervised and unsupervised methods have been highlighted, especially those utilizing neural networks, due to their ability to cre-ate models that require little or no user interaction [Pe-dronette et al., 2019b]. The combination of graphs, semi-supervised models, and unsupervised learning methods has proven to be quite promising, especially reciprocal neighbor graphs [Valem et al., 2023]. To describe and represent an image in vector form, vari-ous types of extractors can be used, for example, transform-ers [Liu et al., 2021] [Dosovitskiy et al., 2021], and neural networks (for instance, CNN [Albawi et al., 2017]). These ex-tractors describe the images by extracting numerical charac-teristics that represent visual features, such as texture, shape, and color, among others. Texture, for example, is a relevant element for human vision and also a crucial characteristic for computer vision models [Humeau-Heurtier, 2019]. It is possible that high-dimensional feature extraction may reduce the final accuracy of the model [Rahma et al., 2023]. To address this issue, there are several methods for reducing feature dimensions. Some of these techniques involve learn-ing the subspace of the extracted features. However, this can lead to overfitting in the subspace, often resulting in precision loss in the model [Jiang et al., 2023]. A recent method aims to deal with this issue through a locality-preserving projection, using dual projection matrices, allowing the preservation of important data properties [Jiang et al., 2023]. Several characteristics can be considered depending on the type of image in the set and also the application [Mutlag et al., 2020]. The features extracted from images depend on the type of extractor used and its configuration. SWIN-TF is a transformer-based extractor. Traditional transformers are based on global attention calculations. SWIN-TF employs a hierarchical structure commonly used in CNN and performs self-attention calculations in non-overlapping windows. This reduces computational complexity and is highly useful in ap-plications aimed at extracting characteristics from focused and unfocused regions. SWIN-TF can demonstrate good re-sults in such applications [Wang et al., 2023]. 

## 2.2 GNN-based Semi-Supervised Image Clas-sification 

One of the greatest challenges in image classification is that close images in the feature space do not necessarily have the same semantic content; thus, often, more than the image’s content itself needs to be evaluated [Wang et al., 2014]. De-pending on the characteristics extracted by the chosen extrac-tor and the configuration parameters used in the extractor, im-ages with different semantic contents might be considered similar by the classification or ranking model. This differ-ence, though obvious for humans, can pose a significant chal-lenge for the mathematical model. One possible solution is to consider more than just the image content and also take into account their similarity. When ranking information is represented by structures like graphs and hypergraphs, one can analyze how similar objects will reference each other and have rankings of similar neighbors [Valem and Pedronette, 2022]. Thus, unsupervised methods are capable of obtaining better and more accurate rankings, depending on little or no user assistance. For achieving better results in specific sce-narios, one can consider specific features from a particular set through ad hoc methods [Li et al., 2017]. The GNN models have shown great potential for semi-supervised learning tasks [Valem et al., 2023]. Combina-tions of semi-supervised, unsupervised methods, and neural networks have been promising. Recent studies demonstrate that using unsupervised learning methods as a pre-processing step in re-ranking tasks has shown a great ability to improve GCN accuracy [Valem et al., 2023]. GCN can also be used with context-sensitive learning methods, employing a multi-scale graph to explore spatial information [Vats and Suri, 2023]. Thus, the network becomes capable of extracting global and contextual information, enhancing its precision. The graph structure can also be reconstructed using back-propagation techniques as part of the network training to re-duce the influence of the initial graph error on the final clas-sification outcome [Ding et al., 2021]. 

# 3 Proposed Approach 

This paper extends the work presented in [Gapski et al., 2024], which addresses the challenge of enhancing image classification techniques in scenarios where labeled data is limited, a common issue in numerous real-world applications. Acquiring labeled data is often resource-intensive and time-consuming, thus methods that can effectively operate with limited labeled data, such as semi-supervised and weakly su-pervised learning, have gained significant importance. The paper emphasizes the critical role of feature extraction in image classification, where essential image patterns such as edges, textures, and colors are identified. In practice, deep learning models like CNNs and VITs are widely employed for this purpose. Given the diversity of feature extractors available, each providing distinct features based on the method and its con-figuration, combining multiple extractors holds the potential to capture complementary information that can enhance clas-sification performance. Focusing on semi-supervised image classification, the paper investigates the application of GNNs. GNNs are particularly beneficial in scenarios where both la-beled and unlabeled data are present, as they leverage graph structures to improve learning outcomes. We propose an in-novative approach that integrates multiple feature extraction methods and graph structures to enhance classification accu-racy, even when the amount of labeled data is limited. Akey contribution of the paper lies in its experimental findings, which demonstrate that the combination of different feature extraction approaches, coupled with the application of man-ifold learning techniques for graph processing, significantly improves classification performance in most cases. In this paper, we propose a novel approach that integrates multiple feature extractors via graphs and feature sets, cap-italizing on the inherent properties and advantages of GNN models. GNNs are particularly effective in representing in-Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026                                               

> Table 1. Summary of the feature extractors used to generate the embeddings for the experiments.
> Name Model Variant Dimensionality Extracted Layer Pretrain URL Source
> CNN-ResNet 152 layers 2048 Penultimate ImageNet github.com/Cadene/pretrained-models.pytorch CNN-SENet 154 layers 2048 Penultimate ImageNet github.com/Cadene/pretrained-models.pytorch CNN-DPNet 92 layers 1000 Penultimate ImageNet github.com/Cadene/pretrained-models.pytorch T2T-VIT24 T2T-ViT-T-24 1000 Last ImageNet github.com/yitu-opensource/T2T-ViT VIT-B16 ViT-Base (Patch=16) 1000 Last ImageNet github.com/faustomorales/vit-keras SWIN-TF Swin-Base-224 1000 Penultimate ImageNet github.com/rishigami/Swin-Transformer-TF ConvNeXt ConvNeXt-Base-224 1024 Penultimate ImageNet github.com/facebookresearch/ConvNeXt DINOv2 DINOv2 VIT-L14 (large) 1024 Last LVD-142M github.com/facebookresearch/dinov2

formation through vector embeddings and graph structures. Our approach explores a variety of techniques for generat-ing representations and constructing graphs, with the aim of combining complementary data from diverse extractors. In this work, we use the terms descriptor and feature extrac-tor interchangeably [Torres and Falcão, 2006]. Given that dif-ferent feature extractors capture unique numerical attributes of each image, depending on the specific technique and con-figuration parameters, our objective is to merge the informa-tion from these extractors. In doing so, we aim to assess the impact of this integration on the performance of the GNN, especially regarding classification accuracy. Motivated by prior work that manifold learning ap-proaches can improve graph quality for semi-supervised im-age classification [Valem et al., 2023], we investigate whether different combinations of features within a rank aggrega-tion framework influence the classification accuracy of GNN models. Although Figure 1 depicts a generic setting with N fea-ture extractors, the proposed approach is evaluated under two distinct experimental settings, which define how descriptors are employed for graph construction and node feature gener-ation: • Setting (i): single-feature or cross-combination. In this setting, a single descriptor is used to compute the ranked list and construct the kNN graph (Steps 2 to 4), while node features are extracted from one descriptor in Step 1. The descriptor used for graph construc-tion may coincide with or differ from the one used for node features, corresponding to the baseline and cross-combination cases, respectively. When manifold learn-ing is enabled, Step 3 performs only re-ranking, and Step 5 is not applied. • Setting (ii): multi-feature aggregation. In this setting, multiple descriptors are jointly employed. A ranked list is computed independently for each descriptor in Step 2 and then combined using the UDLF rank aggregation module in Step 3, producing a single aggregated rank-ing. This ranking is used to construct a reciprocal kNN graph in Step 4. In parallel, node features are obtained by applying Unsupervised Relief (URelief) to each de-scriptor and concatenating the selected components in Step 5. The resulting graph and fused node features are then used to train the GNN in Step 6. Notice that Steps 3 and 5, highlighted in orange, corre-spond to the main contributions introduced regarding our pre-vious work [Gapski et al., 2024]. These steps enable the inte-gration of multiple descriptors by, respectively, performing rank aggregation (Step 3) and fusing multiple feature repre-sentations into a single node feature vector (Step 5). Overall, this workflow enables a comparison between us-ing a single extractor for both node feature representation and graph construction (i.e., edge definition), employing distinct extractors for each component, and jointly aggregating multi-ple descriptors. Moreover, it allows us to evaluate the impact of different manifold learning strategies and feature combi-nations within the rank aggregation process on the resulting classification performance. 

## 3.1 Feature Extraction 

The workflow begins with an image dataset used across all processing steps. From it, features are extracted using N fea-ture extractors. For each image in the dataset, the extractor processes the image and generates a feature vector encoding its relevant characteristics and patterns. A feature matrix is created for the set. Each row of the ma-trix is the feature vector of an image in the dataset. Each ele-ment of this matrix, fi,j , represents a numerical value, where row i represents an image and j represents a specific feature. To facilitate reproducibility of the experimental setup, Ta-ble 1 provides information about the feature extractors used in our experiments, including the model variants (e.g., base or large, and the number of layers), feature dimensionality, the specific layer from which features are extracted, and the source URLs for both the implementation and the pretrained weights. This information allows the experiments to be faith-fully reproduced and fairly compared. All backbones were used as frozen, pretrained feature extractors. No fine-tuning or additional training was performed by us on any of them. The features were extracted directly from the pretrained mod-els. A detailed description of the architecture of each back-bone is provided below: • CNN-ResNet [He et al., 2016] : CNN-ResNet is a con-volutional neural network that uses residual blocks. The activation functions for some layers are connected, and the model has shortcuts that allow some layers to be skipped. CNN-ResNet learns by combining these resid-ual blocks. So, the network is adjusted only in the resid-ual mapping [He et al., 2016]. This work considers the implementation with 152 layers. • CNN-DPNET [Chen et al., 2017] : The Dual Path Net-work (DPN) is a highly efficient and modularized im-age classification architecture that combines the advan-tages of Residual Networks (ResNet) and Densely Con-Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 Dataset 

# ...   

> Rank
> Aggregation
> Manifold Learning
> Feature
> Extractor 1
> Feature
> Extractor N
> Feature V ectors 1
> Feature V ectors N
> Aggregated Ranked Lists Graph
> Graph
> Neural
> Network
> (GNN)
> Classification Results
> Graph
> Modeling:
> kNN or
> Rec. KNN

1 2

345

> [1.74, 0.10, ..., 0.09, 0.17]
> [6.34, 0.71, ..., 7.36, 0.92]
> ...
> [8.47, 0.36, ..., 0.33, 0.85]
> [16.1, 1.02, ..., 0.66, 8.77]
> ...

# ... ... Class 1 Class 2 Class 3 

# ... 

> Process Steps
> Data
> Legend:

# ... ... ...   

> Indexing Algorithm
> Indexing Algorithm

# ... ... ...  

> Ranked Lists for
> Extractor 1
> Ranked Lists for
> Extractor N

# ... ...  

> Set of Feature V ectors Set of Ranked Lists

6  

> Nfeatures
> +
> Process Steps for Graph
> and Feature Aggregation
> Feature Selection (URelief) and Concatenation

Figure 1. Proposed method for combinations between different extractors using manifold learning. 

volutional Networks (DenseNet) by using a new inter-nal connection topology. DPN leverages ResNet’s abil-ity to reuse features and DenseNet’s capacity to explore new features, allowing for the learning of more robust representations. The network maintains a flexible dual-path structure that shares common features while also enabling the exploration of new ones. • CNN-SENet [Hu et al., 2018] : CNN-SENet is a type of CNN that incorporates a Squeeze-and-Excitation (SE) block to improve feature representation. The SE block recalibrates channel-wise feature responses by model-ing the interdependencies between channels, allowing the network to focus on the most important features. This approach boosts performance significantly with minimal computational cost and is able to achieve ex-cellent results. • T2T-VIT [Yuan et al., 2021] : T2T-ViT (Tokens-to-Token Vision Transformer) is a variant of the VIT de-signed to address the limitations of VIT when trained from scratch on datasets like ImageNet. It improves upon VIT by introducing a Tokens-to-Token transfor-mation, which progressively aggregates neighboring to-kens to better capture local structures (such as edges and lines) within the image. This transformation helps im-prove training efficiency and reduces token length. • Vision Transformer (VIT) [Dosovitskiy et al., 2021] :A Transformer pre-trained on large amounts of data and transferred to various image recognition benchmarks. First, the image is divided into patches, which are flat-tened and mapped so that they all have the same di-mensions. Then, lower-dimensional linear embeddings are produced from the flattened patches. Positional em-beddings are added, and the input sequence is fed as it would be for a standard transformer encoder. Finally, the model is pre-trained with image labels in a super-vised manner using a very large dataset. Afterward, transfer learning is performed on the target dataset for feature extraction. The base version with a patch size equal to 16 was used in this work. • Shifted windows Transformer (SWIN-TF) [Liu et al., 2021] : It uses a Vision Transformer called Swin Trans-former, which serves as a general-purpose backbone for computer vision. The Transformer is hierarchi-cal, and its representation is calculated with Shifted 

win dows [Liu et al., 2021]. The shifted windows scheme allows to achieve great efficiency by limit-ing self-attention computation to non-overlapping local windows while allowing connections between windows. This hierarchical architecture is flexible for modeling at various scales and has linear computational complexity with respect to the image size. • DINOv2 [Oquab et al., 2024] : DINOv2 is a series of image encoders pretrained on large curated datasets without supervision. DINOv2 models exhibit an under-standing of object parts and scene geometry across vari-ous image domains. These visual features can be easily used with simple classifiers like linear layers, and the work envisions further scaling to create AI systems ca-pable of processing visual features like word tokens in language models. • ConvNeXt [Liu et al., 2022] : ConvNeXt is a family of modernized Convolutional Neural Networks (Con-vNets) designed to compete with Transformers in visual recognition tasks. By reexamining and gradually adapt-Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

ing a standard CNN-ResNet toward a Transformer-like architecture, ConvNeXt incorporates several key design improvements that boost performance. The same set of descriptors is used across all datasets. The only exception is DINOv2, which was excluded from the Flowers and CUB200 datasets due to potential overlap with its pretraining data. Therefore, this descriptor is used only for the Corel5k dataset. 

## 3.2 Indexing Algorithm 

The similarities between images are computed based on the features obtained in Step 1 of Figure 1. For each feature ex-tractor, a corresponding ranked list is generated. This can be efficiently performed by optimized indexing algorithms, such as the BallTree [Omohundro, 1989]. For this work, this process is used to obtain a ranked list, which is a list that contains the nearest elements for each el-ement in the set, ranked from closest to the most distant one (i.e., in descending order of similarity). This list is generated using the Euclidean distance, which calculates the distance between each image and every other image in the set. 

## 3.3 Re-Ranking and Rank Aggregation by Manifold Learning 

The ranked lists (obtained in step 2) are processed by an un-supervised similarity learning method, which aims at post-processing and improving the effectiveness of the ranked lists. The same methods can be used to do rank aggregation (step 3 in Figure 1). Manifold learning approaches aim to capture and exploit the intrinsic manifold structure to compute a more effec-tive distance/similarity measure [Jiang et al., 2011]. There are different methods in the literature that perform unsuper-vised similarity learning considering different strategies (e.g., graphs, diffusion processes, and others). In this work, we consider unsupervised manifold learn-ing methods to provide more effective similarity mea-sures using rank-based formulations. They are all imple-mented on the Unsupervised Distance Learning Framework (UDLF) [Valem and Pedronette, 2017], which is an open-source framework that provides different approaches in this category. The manifold learning methods used in this work are listed below: • Breadth-First Search Tree (BFSTree) [Pedronette et al., 2021a] : Utilizes a breadth-first tree to represent similarity information provided by ranking references. This tree is exploited to discover underlying similarity relationships, enabling a more effective similarity mea-sure to be computed. • Rank-Based Diffusion Process with Assured Conver-gence (RDPAC) [Pedronette et al., 2021b] : An ef-ficient rank-based diffusion process combining diffu-sion approaches and ranking-based strategies. It ap-proximates a diffusion process by leveraging rank-based information while ensuring convergence. It is a low asymptotic complexity algorithm and can be computed regionally. • Log-based Hypergraph of Ranking References (LHRR) [Pedronette et al., 2019a] : It is a hypergraph representation that, along with its corresponding hyper-edges, is grounded in Ranking References, which are as-signed weights based on a logarithmic function. Hyper-graphs serve as a potent extension of traditional graphs, enabling the definition of hyperedges that can link any number of vertices. This capability allows for the rep-resentation of similarity relationships among sets of ob-jects, as opposed to merely pairwise connections typi-cally found in conventional graph-based models. Identi-fying sets of similar objects is of paramount importance for the task at hand. 

## 3.4 Graph modeling 

This step is essential, as in most image datasets the graph is not readily available, and a strategy to construct it is cru-cial, potentially affecting the final results. Using the ranked lists obtained in Step 2, which are refined by manifold learn-ing techniques, we build a k-nearest neighbors (kNN) graph to serve as input for the GNN. In this graph, each image is represented as a node, and edges are established from each node to its top-k most similar elements according to the cor-responding ranked list. Alternatively, a reciprocal kNN graph can be constructed by adding a constraint: an edge between two nodes exists only if both appear among each other’s k nearest neigh-bors [Valem et al., 2023]. This results in a symmetric graph, where all connections are bidirectional, reinforcing mutual similarity. In this work, we adopt a reciprocal kNN graph when mul-tiple features are used. This is part of the novelty of our ap-proach: by applying the reciprocity constraint in the multi-feature setting, we enhance the integration of complementary information while maintaining strong and meaningful con-nections in the graph structure. 

## 3.5 Feature Selection and Concatenation 

Feature matrices typically have high dimensionality. Each extracted numerical characteristic from an image results in a new dimension, which can lead to very large matrix represen-tations. In the present work, URelief is applied to each feature set independently to select 200 features. These features are then concatenated to obtain the final representation used as input to the GNN, which results in a lower-dimensional represen-tation, in comparison to the original representation. After applying URelief to each feature vector, the low-dimensional vectors from multiple descriptors are then con-catenated into a single final vector. This concatenation com-bines complementary information from different descriptors and is used as input for the GNN model, as illustrated in Fig-ure 1 steps 5 and 6. 

## 3.6 Graph Neural Network (GNN) 

A Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) [Kipf and Welling, 2017] is a type of Graph Neural Network (GNN) that per-Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

forms convolutional operations on graph-structured data for classification tasks. A key advantage of GCNs is their abil-ity to exploit the graph connectivity to propagate and smooth information across neighboring nodes, computing new rep-resentations (i.e., embeddings) while remaining computa-tionally efficient. In this work, we use the implementation provided by the PyTorch Geometric framework [Fey and Lenssen, 2019; Paszke et al., 2019] 1. We employ graph neu-ral network (GNN) models as semi-supervised, transductive image classifiers that leverage relational information encoded in graph structures. The different GNN models considered in this work are described below: • Graph Convolution Network (GCN) [Kipf and Welling, 2017]: The pioneering GCN that introduced the concept of applying convolutions to graph struc-tures, commonly referred to as GCN. • Approximate Personalized Propagation of Neural Predictions (APPNP) [Gasteiger et al., 2019]: A model that integrates a GCN with the PageRank algorithm, uti-lizing a propagation strategy derived from a modified PageRank approach. • Graph Attention Networks (GATs) [Veličković et al., 2018] : a neural network architecture designed for graph-structured data. GATs leverage masked self-attention layers to overcome limitations inherent in prior graph convolutional methods and their approximations. By stacking attention-based layers, nodes in the graph can selectively attend to different features in their neighbor-hoods, allowing for the assignment of varying weights to neighbors without the need for computationally ex-pensive matrix operations, such as inversion. • Simple Graph Convolution (SGC) [Wu et al., 2019] :SGC is a GCN with reduced complexity, through suc-cessively removing nonlinearities and collapsing weight matrices between consecutive layers. The simplifica-tions done did not impact negatively the accuracy of many downstream applications. • Auto-Regressive Moving Average (ARMA) [Bianchi et al., 2022] : a graph convolutional layer inspired by auto-regressive moving average (ARMA) filter. It is able to capture global graph structures and be robust to noise. ARMA is a graph neural network implementa-tion of the ARMA filter with a distributed and recursive formulation. It results in a convolutional layer that is lo-calized in the node space, is efficient to train, and can be transferred to new graphs at test time. In this work, we train the GNN using (i) node features and (ii) a graph built from ranked lists refined by manifold learn-ing. In the single-feature/cross-combination setting, the descriptor used to construct the graph may be the same as (baseline) or different from (cross-combination) the descrip-tor used to compute node features. In the multi-feature set-ting, multiple descriptors are jointly used: ranked lists are ag-gregated to build a single reciprocal kNN graph, while node features are fused via URelief+concatenation, as shown in Steps 3–5 of Figure 1.  

> 1PyTorch Geometric: https://github.com/pyg-team/pytorch_ geometric .

## 3.7 Overview of the Execution Flow 

Given the individual explanation of each step, we now pro-vide an overview of how these steps are connected within the workflow and how they are used in our experiments. Our approach is divided into two different experimental settings: (i) experiments in which a single backbone feature extractor (descriptor) is used to generate both the node fea-tures and the graph structure. We refer to this setting as single-feature or cross-combination; and (ii) experiments in which multiple backbone feature extractors (descriptors) are jointly used to construct the graph and the node features. For setting (i), the executed steps are as follows, following the numbering in Figure 1: 1. Feature extraction is performed, with at most two de-scriptors, one used to construct the graph and the other to define the node features. 2. A ranked list is always computed using Euclidean dis-tance and a BallTree structure to obtain the neighbor-hood information required to build the kNN graph. 3. Manifold learning may or may not be applied. The eval-uation explicitly distinguishes these cases, and when used, one of the following methods is adopted: LHRR, BFSTREE, or RDPAC. 4. The graph is modeled using a standard kNN strategy with k = 40 .5. This step is not performed. 6. The resulting graph and feature matrix are then provided to a GNN model, which is trained to perform image clas-sification. For setting (ii) the main difference is that both the graph and the image features can be obtained from multiple descrip-tors, which characterizes the multi-feature setting. For set-ting (ii), the executed steps are as follows, following the num-bering in Figure 1: 1. Multiple feature extractors are applied, according to the evaluation configuration. 2. A ranked list is computed independently for each feature using Euclidean distance and a BallTree structure. 3. Since graph construction requires a single ranked list, all ranked lists are jointly processed using the rank ag-gregation module of the UDLF framework. This mod-ule receives two or more ranked lists, applies manifold learning, and returns a single aggregated ranked list. 4. A reciprocal kNN graph is then constructed, in which only mutual edges are preserved, based on the aggre-gated ranked list produced by the manifold learning method. 5. This step is exclusive to the multi-feature setting and is responsible for combining features from multiple extrac-tors using URelief, resulting in a single feature vector per image. 6. Finally, the GNN model is executed using the resulting graph and feature representation. 

# 4 Experimental Evaluation 

The experimental protocol is divided into four subsections. While Section 4.1 describes the datasets, parameter settings, Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

and other experimental details; Section 4.2 presents the abla-tion study. We conducted two main sets of experiments. The first set, which is presented in Section 4.3, investigates the single-feature setting, in which a single backbone descriptor is used to define the node features and, optionally, a different de-scriptor is used to construct the graph structure. This setting allows us to evaluate both standard single-descriptor config-urations and cross-combinations between feature and graph extractors, as well as the impact of applying manifold learn-ing. The second set, which is presented in Section 4.4, inves-tigates the multi-feature setting, in which multiple backbone descriptors are jointly exploited to build both the graph struc-ture and the node features. In this case, ranked lists obtained from different descriptors are aggregated through manifold learning to generate a unified graph, while the corresponding feature representations are fused into a single vector per im-age. This setting evaluates the benefits of combining comple-mentary visual information from multiple extractors within the proposed framework. 

## 4.1 Experimental Protocol 

In this work, we evaluate the proposed approach on three widely used and publicly available image classification datasets: • Flowers (Oxford17Flowers) [Nilsback and Zisserman, 2006]: A dataset consisting of 1,360 images grouped into 17 flower categories. Despite its relatively small size, it is commonly adopted in the evaluation of visual classification methods due to its well-defined classes and controlled variability. The average size of the im-ages is around 583 × 555. • Corel5k [Liu et al., 2010]: A multi-class image dataset containing 5,000 images organized into 50 categories. The dataset presents significant intra-class variability and has been extensively used in image retrieval and classification tasks, serving as a standard benchmark in the literature. The average size of the images is around 170 × 144. • CUB200 (CUB-200-2011) [Wah et al., 2011]: Afine-grained image classification dataset composed of 11,788 images from 200 bird species. This dataset is particularly challenging due to the high inter-class simi-larity and subtle visual differences between classes. The average size of the images is around 468 × 386. For feature extraction, all images were resized to 224 ×224 ,matching the input resolution used to train the feature extrac-tors on ImageNet [Deng et al., 2009] or LVD-142M [Oquab et al., 2024]. For manifold learning approaches, the default parameters of the UDLF framework (version 1.60) were used. Since the goal of the present paper is to evaluate the combinations be-tween different feature extractors and graphs, the default pa-rameters were kept at the default values since they are out of the scope of this study. Also, keeping the default values allows us to analyze the results of the combinations with the same parameters without the influence of other aspects on the results. The only modified parameters were the neighborhood sizes and the maximum list depth L. To ensure a more pre-cise description of the experimental design, we distinguish between Kg , which defines the neighborhood size for graph construction, and Km, which determines the neighborhood range used by manifold learning methods. In all experiments reported in this work, we set Kg = Km to facilitate compar-ison with baselines and maintain consistency with previous protocols in the literature [Valem et al., 2023; Leticio et al., 2025]. Specifically, we used Kg = Km = 40 for single-feature experiments and Kg = Km = 50 for multi-feature aggrega-tion scenarios. The latter choice is justified by the need to ex-ploit the increased complementary information provided by multiple input rankings. Regarding the parameter L, it was set to the dataset size for the Flowers dataset and to 2000 for the remaining datasets. Although L defines the maximum depth of the ranked lists considered, it does not directly in-fluence the final results as long as L > K g and L > K m,as the similarity relationships and manifold structures are ef-fectively computed within the top-K range, where the effec-tiveness typically reaches a plateau [Pedronette et al., 2019a, 2021a,b]. Regarding the hyperparameters used to train the GNN models, the following settings are adopted across all exper-iments: • Graph neighborhood: k = 40 for single-feature graph and k = 50 for multi-feature graph. • Learning Rate: 0.001 for all datasets; except 0.01 for CUB200. • Number of neurons in hidden layers is 64 for all GNNs, except for SGC, which has no hidden layers. • 200 epochs. • Adam optimizer with weight decay of 5 × 10 −4.All experiments employed a 10-fold cross-validation pro-tocol, where each execution considered one fold as the train-ing set and the others as the testing set, such that each fold is used as the training set at least once. This setting is important because it uses only 10% of the data for training and 90% for testing, creating a challenging scenario with limited labeled data and few labeled samples per class. Each reported mean and standard deviation were computed over repeated execu-tions of the full cross-validation protocol. Statistical analyses were performed using paired accuracy values obtained under the same folds and random seeds. In some cases, we also re-port the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (p < 0.05) and Cohen’s 

d to assess the statistical significance and effect size of the observed accuracy differences. For tables containing a large number of reported values, the best-performing result in each table is consistently high-lighted in blue in order to facilitate visual identification and improve the readability and interpretation of the comparative results. Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

## 4.2 Ablation Study 

Since the proposed approach is composed of several compo-nents, we conducted an ablation study on each dataset. The results are presented as stacked bar charts for each feature extractor, as shown in Figure 2. Please note that three colors are used in the stacked bars. Blue represents the baseline accuracy when the same feature extractor is used both for the node features and for graph construction. Orange indicates the accuracy gain obtained by changing the graph construction, corresponding to cross-combinations between different feature extractors. Finally, green represents the additional improvement achieved when both graph combination and manifold learning are applied. Since three manifold learning methods were evaluated, the green segment corresponds to the best result among them. Notice that, typically, the largest gains are obtained when using cross-combinations of features and graphs. In contrast, for the best isolated feature (SWIN-TF), the improvements are more noticeable when feature and graph combinations are jointly employed with manifold learning. 

## 4.3 Single-Feature Experiments 

This subsection analyzes how heterogeneous combinations of feature and graph descriptors affect the performance of SGC across different image classification datasets. Table 2 reports the classification accuracy obtained on the Flowers dataset using the SGC model under different combinations of feature extractors for node features and graph construc-tion, as well as different manifold learning strategies. Over-all, the results clearly indicate that combining heterogeneous feature extractors consistently improves performance when compared to single extractor settings, especially when cou-pled with manifold learning. First, considering the baseline scenario without manifold learning, it can be observed that the configurations where the same extractor is used for both features and graph con-struction do not yield the best results in most cases. In contrast, cross-combinations, particularly those involving stronger transformers such as SWIN-TF and VIT-B16, al-ready lead to noticeable accuracy gains. Similarly to Flowers, Table 3 confirms that configurations using the same descriptor for both node features and graph construction are rarely optimal on Corel5k. In contrast, com-binations that use different descriptors for features and graph consistently achieve higher accuracy, and manifold learning further improves accuracy in most cases. In particular, us-ing SWIN-TF to construct the graph yields strong and stable results across different feature extractors. The best Corel5k performance is obtained with VIT-B16 node features and a SWIN-TF graph under RDPAC, reaching 98 .53 ± 0.0090 ,highlighting the benefit of a transformer-based graph back-bone. Even with the inclusion of DINOv2, the strongest re-sults typically rely on heterogeneous feature and graph de-scriptors, suggesting complementary information between representations. On the more challenging CUB200 dataset (Table 4), abso-lute accuracies decrease as expected due to the fine-grained nature of the task, but the same pattern persists. Settings that use different descriptors for features and graph, combined with manifold learning, provide gains over configurations that rely on a single descriptor for both. Once again, graphs built from SWIN-TF dominate the best results, with the high-est accuracy achieved under RDPAC ( 82 .25 ± 0.0227 ), in-dicating that high-quality similarity neighborhoods become increasingly important as task difficulty increases. Overall, the joint analysis of Tables 2, 3, and 4 demon-strates that using different descriptors for node features and graph construction consistently improves SGC accuracy and that manifold learning, particularly RDPAC, further ampli-fies these gains across datasets. Given the large number of results reported in these tables, Table 5 was introduced to provide a concise summary. This table compares the best single descriptor results with the best cross-feature combinations for each manifold learning method and dataset, explicitly highlighting the relative gains achieved by combining features and graphs derived from dif-ferent extractors. This view facilitates the interpretation of the experimental results and enables a clearer comparison across datasets and configurations. The analysis of single feature cross-combinations directly supports the hypothesis of this work. Although modern trans-former based descriptors such as SWIN-TF achieve strong accuracy when used in isolation, its role as graph backbones becomes even more relevant when combined with heteroge-neous node features. As shown in Table 5, cross feature con-figurations consistently outperform the best single descriptor baselines across all datasets and manifold learning strategies, revealing the complementary nature of different representa-tions. In all cases, the strongest standalone descriptor nat-urally emerges as the most effective choice for graph con-struction, reflecting the sensitivity of SGC to graph topology quality. Moreover, manifold learning, particularly RDPAC, further amplifies these gains. In addition, a statistical analysis was conducted for each row of the table to assess the significance of the observed improvements using two complementary tests: the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (p < 0.05) and Cohen’s d. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used to evaluate statistical significance, where lower p values indicate stronger evidence against the null hypothesis. Cohen’s d was employed to quantify the magnitude of the improvements. According to standard guidelines, values around 0.2 correspond to small effects, around 0.5 to medium effects, and values above 0.8 to large effects. Overall, the results demonstrate not only statistically significant improvements but also effect sizes that are consis-tently meaningful. 

4.3.1 Evaluation of Different GNN Models 

Besides SGC, we also evaluate the proposed approach across multiple GNN architectures, namely GCN, GAT, APPNP, and ARMA, under the same experimental setting. Tables 6, 7, and 8 report the results for the Flowers, Corel5k, and CUB200 datasets, respectively. In these experiments, the graph structure is fixed using SWIN-TF, which achieves the best performance when used in isolation. Importantly, even though SWIN-TF is already the strongest standalone backbone, its performance is further improved when com-Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 CNN-ResNet 

> CNN-DPNet
> CNN-SENet
> T2T-VIT24
> VIT-B16
> SWIN-TF
> DINOv2
> ConvNext

80 

82 

84 

86 

88 

90 

92 

94 

> %

Baseline (Features = Graph, no manifold learning) 

Gain from combinations (best graph, no manifold learning) 

Additional gain with manifold learning (best result) CNN-ResNet 

> CNN-DPNet
> CNN-SENet
> T2T-VIT24
> VIT-B16
> SWIN-TF
> 65
> 70
> 75
> 80
> 85
> 90
> 95
> 100

Ablation Experiments on the Flowers Dataset 

> Accuracy (%)

(a) Flowers CNN-ResNet 

> CNN-DPNet
> CNN-SENet
> T2T-VIT24
> VIT-B16
> SWIN-TF
> DINOv2
> ConvNext
> 86
> 88
> 90
> 92
> 94
> 96
> 98
> Accuracy (%)

Ablation Experiments on the Corel5k Dataset 

(b) Corel5k CNN-ResNet 

> CNN-DPNet
> CNN-SENet
> T2T-VIT24
> VIT-B16
> SWIN-TF
> ConvNext
> 30
> 40
> 50
> 60
> 70
> 80

Ablation Experiments on the CUB200 Dataset 

> Accuracy (%)

(c) CUB200 

Figure 2. Ablation study on three datasets and multiple features on the SGC model. Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

bined with heterogeneous node features and manifold learn-ing strategies. By varying node features and manifold learn-ing while keeping the graph fixed, this setup allows us to iso-late the effects of feature heterogeneity and manifold learning from architectural differences. Across all datasets, the models exhibit a consistent trend. Cross-feature configurations outperform single-feature base-lines, and the inclusion of manifold learning further improves performance, with RDPAC achieving the best results in all of these cases. Although absolute accuracy values vary across architectures, the relative performance trends remain stable. To summarize the best results from Tables 6, 7, and 8, we also include Table 9. As a baseline, we consider results ob-tained using the same backbone for both feature extraction and graph construction, without manifold learning. The high-est accuracies are achieved by cross-combinations that use different backbones for feature extraction and graph construc-tion, combined with manifold learning (abbreviated as M.L.). Notably, performance gains are observed in all cases. De-spite variations in accuracy across models, SGC consistently achieves the best results across all datasets. For SGC, the highest accuracy in each table always corresponds to a cross-feature combination. These findings reflect the main objective of our approach: demonstrating that combining graphs and features derived from different backbones through manifold learning leads to improved accuracy compared to single-feature setups, which remain the standard in most existing literature, to the best of our knowledge. Consequently, we use SGC for the remain-ing experiments, as it is both lightweight and competitive. A possible explanation for SGC’s superior performance is its simplified propagation mechanism, which mitigates over-smoothing and enables more effective exploitation of the combined features and the manifold learning stage. 

4.3.2 Comparison with ManifoldGCN 

A comparison between our approach and Mani-foldGCN [Valem et al., 2023] is presented in Table 10. ManifoldGCN is a method that combines GNNs with man-ifold learning but does not perform feature combinations and has previously been evaluated against state-of-the-art techniques. Both methods use the same settings and graph configuration (i.e., a standard kNN graph). While Mani-foldGCN reports results for each descriptor individually and does not support feature combinations, our approach demonstrates that combining the evaluated descriptors can effectively improve performance. The results obtained by our method correspond to the best-performing configurations (highlighted in blue) in Tables 2, 3, and 4. 

## 4.4 Multi-Feature Experiments 

This subsection analyzes how the joint use of multiple fea-ture extractors in the multi-feature setting affects the perfor-mance of SGC across different image classification datasets. In this setting, both the graph structure and the node features are constructed from multiple backbone descriptors, which are combined through rank aggregation and feature fusion mechanisms. For the multi-feature aggregation setting, we adopted a slightly larger neighborhood size, Kg = Km = 50 , in order to better capture the complementary information provided by multiple heterogeneous descriptors. Since each feature ex-tractor induces a distinct similarity structure, increasing K

allows the re-ranking and manifold learning procedures to integrate a broader and more stable set of cross-feature re-lationships, without introducing noise or altering the local nature of the neighborhood construction. 

4.4.1 Parameter Analysis for Feature Selection 

URelief is used in the multi-feature setting by enabling the fu-sion of heterogeneous descriptors into a single representation. Since each backbone produces features with different biases and levels of redundancy, a naive concatenation can amplify irrelevant dimensions and dilute discriminative ones. In con-trast, URelief ranks dimensions according to their ability to preserve local neighborhood consistency, selecting the most informative components across extractors while discarding noisy or redundant ones. Therefore, we conducted an evaluation to determine the feature dimensionality for URelief, which is used to select the number of features from each extractor before concatenation. Figure 3 illustrates this analysis. It shows that performance quickly reaches a plateau at around 200 features without and with any of the manifold learning approaches. Consequently, we adopt a fixed dimensionality of 200 selected features for URelief across all datasets and experimental settings. 0 100 200 300 400 500  

> 90 92 94 96 98 100
> Number of selected features (URelief) Accuracy (%)
> Accuracy on Corel5k dataset with GCN-SGC using SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 concatenated features via URelief
> Graph (Base)
> LHRR
> RDPAC
> BFSTREE
> Figure 3. Effect of the number of features selected by URelief on the Corel5k dataset using SGC with concatenated SWIN-TF and VIT-B16 fea-tures.

4.4.2 Multi-Feature Results 

Tables 11, 12, and 13 present the SGC results when using re-ciprocal kNN graphs combined with rank aggregation, con-sidering both single and multi feature descriptors (built from the three best backbones selected for each dataset). Overall, the three tables show a consistent pattern: (1) using SWIN-TF as the graph descriptor yields the most stable and highest Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

accuracies across blocks, indicating that its similarity struc-ture provides a strong manifold for propagation; (2) mani-fold learning usually further improves the aggregated setting, with RDPAC being the most effective option in the majority of cases; and (3) although some cross graph choices can de-grade performance, multi-feature descriptors remain compet-itive and frequently match or surpass the best single-feature baselines, confirming that the proposed aggregation can ex-ploit complementary rankings without losing the benefits of a strong graph backbone. For the Flowers dataset (Table 11), the best result is achieved by combining SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet features while keeping the graph as SWIN-TF and apply-ing RDPAC (99.85%), which slightly improves over the best single-feature configuration. This table also highlights that, when the graph is replaced by weaker alternatives (e.g., CNN-ResNet), performance drops sharply even with aggregated features, reinforcing that graph quality is the dominant fac-tor in this dataset. Regarding Corel5k (Table 12), the gains from rank aggre-gation and manifold learning are more evident, with the over-all best score obtained using VIT-B16 features, a SWIN-TF graph, and RDPAC (98.52%). In the case of CUB200 (Table 13), the dataset is harder due to higher intra-class and inter-class variability, and the results clearly emphasize the importance of both cross-combinations and manifold learning. The highest accu-racy is obtained with VIT-B16 features using SWIN-TF as graph and RDPAC (83.33%), outperforming the correspond-ing single-feature baselines and showing that the aggregated framework better captures fine-grained similarities when a transformer-based graph is adopted. Across all blocks, configurations relying on CNN-ResNet graphs remain lim-ited, whereas using SWIN-TF as graph consistently lifts per-formance, with RDPAC yielding the largest improvements among the manifold learning options. As a consolidated view of the results presented in this sub-section (Tables 11, 12, and 13), Table 14 summarizes and compares the best single-feature baselines without manifold learning (abbreviated as M.L.) against the best multi-feature SGC configurations for each dataset. This table highlights the accuracy gains achieved by combining heterogeneous fea-ture extractors and graph constructions, providing a compact overview of the benefits of feature fusion across datasets. No-tice that the gains are higher for the largest dataset (CUB200). For Flowers, the gains are modest, since the baseline is al-ready close to 100%. A statistical analysis was also con-ducted for each row of the table to assess the significance of the observed improvements using two tests: the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (p < 0.05) and Cohen’s d. Overall, the re-sults indicate not only statistically significant improvements, but also effect sizes that are practically meaningful across all three datasets. 

# 5 Conclusion 

This work investigated semi-supervised image classification with GNNs under limited-label scenarios by proposing a framework for combinations in both single-feature and multi-feature settings. In the single-feature scenario, including cross-combinations where node features and graph structures are derived from different backbone extractors, the results consistently show that using the same descriptor for both inputs is rarely optimal. Instead, heterogeneous combina-tions significantly improve classification accuracy, particu-larly when a strong backbone is used to construct the graph while complementary descriptors define the node features. These gains are further amplified by manifold learning tech-niques, which refine neighborhood relationships and improve message propagation, with RDPAC emerging as the most effective approach in most cases. In the multi-feature sce-nario, rank aggregation enables the integration of multiple ranked lists into a unified similarity structure, while feature fusion based on URelief and concatenation produces com-pact and informative node representations. This joint aggre-gation strategy is competitive and frequently surpasses the best single-descriptor baselines, especially on more challeng-ing datasets, revealing that complementary information can be effectively combined without sacrificing the advantages of high-quality transformer-based representations. For future work, we plan to investigate new ways to eval-uate feature combinations. This includes using alternative graph constructions to capture different relationships, ag-gregating them through pooling mechanisms, experimenting with different dimensionality-reduction methods for rank ag-gregation, and further evaluating the impact of parameters such as neighborhood size. In addition, we intend to assess the proposed approaches across multiple datasets and other modalities (e.g., text, audio). 

# Declarations 

## Authors’ Contributions  

> Lucas Valem, Mohand Allili, and Daniel Pedronette contributed to the conception of this study. Marina Gapski conducted the prelim-inary experiments. Vinicius Kawai, Gustavo Leticio, and Lucas Valem conducted the definitive experiments. Marina Gapski, Vini-cius Kawai, Gustavo Leticio, and Lucas Valem are the main con-tributors and writers of this manuscript. Marina Gapski, Vinicius Kawai, Gustavo Leticio, and Lucas Valem wrote the final text of the manuscript. All authors contributed to the final revision of the experiments and the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.

## Competing interests 

> The authors declare that they have no competing interests.

## Acknowledgements  

> The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support pro-vided by the São Paulo Research Foundation – FAPESP (grants #2025/10602-5, #2023/12736-3, and #2018/15597-6), the Brazil-ian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development – CNPq (grants #313193/2023-1 and #422667/2021-8), the Coor-denação de Aperfeiçoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior – Brasil (CAPES, Finance Code 001), the University of São Paulo (PRPI Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026
> Ordinance No. 1032, “Apoio aos Novos Docentes”), and Petrobras (grant #2023/00095-3).

## Availability of data and materials  

> The source code developed in this work is available at https:// github.com/marinachagasbg/gnn-multifeature-fusion .The datasets used in this study are publicly available in their respective sources.

# References 

Saad Albawi, Tareq Abed Mohammed, and Saad Al-Zawi. Understanding of a convolutional neural network. In 2017 International Conference on Engineering and Technology (ICET) , pages 1–6, 2017. . Young Anna Argyris, Zuhui Wang, Yongsuk Kim, and Zhaozheng Yin. The effects of visual congruence on increasing consumers’ brand engagement: An empirical investigation of influencer marketing on instagram using deep-learning algorithms for automatic image classifica-tion. Computers in Human Behavior , 112:106443, 2020. ISSN 0747-5632. . Filippo Maria Bianchi, Daniele Grattarola, Lorenzo Livi, and Cesare Alippi. Graph neural networks with convolutional arma filters. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence , 44(7):3496–3507, 2022. . Olivier Chapelle, Bernhard Schölkopf, and Alexander Zien, editors. Semi-Supervised Learning . The MIT Press, 2006. ISBN 9780262033589. URL http://dblp.uni-trier. de/db/books/collections/CSZ2006.html .Yunpeng Chen, Jianan Li, Huaxin Xiao, Xiaojie Jin, Shuicheng Yan, and Jiashi Feng. Dual path networks. In I. Guyon, U. Von Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fer-gus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 30. Cur-ran Associates, Inc., 2017. URL https://proceedings. neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2017/file/ f7e0b956540676a129760a3eae309294-Paper.pdf .Afshin Dehghan, Syed Zain Masood, Guang Shu, and En-rique G. Ortiz. View independent vehicle make, model and color recognition using convolutional neural network. 

CoRR , abs/1702.01721, 2017. URL http://arxiv. org/abs/1702.01721 .Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In 2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 248–255. IEEE, 2009. Yao Ding, Xiaofeng Zhao, Zhili Zhang, Wei Cai, and Nengjun Yang. Multiscale graph sample and aggregate network with context-aware learning for hyperspectral im-age classification. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Ap-plied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing , 14:4561– 4572, 2021. . Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Neil Houlsby. An im-age is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recog-nition at scale. International Conference on Learning Rep-resentations , 2021. . URL https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2010.11929# .Matthias Fey and Jan Eric Lenssen. Fast graph representation learning with pytorch geometric. CoRR , abs/1903.02428, 2019. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.02428 .Marina Chagas Bulach Gapski, Lucas Pascotti Valem, and Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette. Feature fusion for graph convolutional networks in semi-supervised image classification. In 2024 37th SIBGRAPI Conference on Graphics, Patterns and Images (SIBGRAPI) , pages 1–6, 2024. . Johannes Gasteiger, Aleksandar Bojchevski, and Stephan Günnemann. Combining neural networks with personal-ized pagerank for classification on graphs. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2019. K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Deep residual learn-ing for image recognition. In CVPR , pages 770–778, June 2016. Jie Hu, Li Shen, and Gang Sun. Squeeze-and-excitation net-works. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Com-puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , June 2018. Anne Humeau-Heurtier. Texture feature extraction methods: A survey. IEEE Access , 7:8975–9000, 2019. . Jiayan Jiang, Bo Wang, and Zhuowen Tu. Unsupervised met-ric learning by self-smoothing operator. In 2011 Inter-national Conference on Computer Vision , pages 794–801, 2011. Lin Jiang, Xiaozhao Fang, Weijun Sun, Na Han, and Shaohua Teng. Low-rank constraint based dual projections learn-ing for dimensionality reduction. Signal Processing , 204: 108817, 2023. ISSN 0165-1684. . Aditya Khosla, Nityananda Jayadevaprakash, Bangpeng Yao, and Li Fei-Fei. Novel dataset for fine-grained image cate-gorization. In Workshop on Fine-Grained Visual Catego-rization, CVPR , June 2011. Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. Semi-supervised classifi-cation with graph convolutional networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2017. URL 

https://openreview.net/forum?id=SJU4ayYgl .Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Im-agenet classification with deep convolutional neural net-works. In F. Pereira, C. J. C. Burges, L. Bottou, and K. Q. Weinberger, editors, Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems 25 , pages 1097–1105. Curran Associates, Inc., 2012. Gustavo Rosseto Leticio, Vinicius Atsushi Sato Kawai, Lu-cas Pascotti Valem, and Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pe-dronette. Neighbor embedding projection and graph con-volutional networks for image classification. In Proceed-ings of the 20th International Joint Conference on Com-puter Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics Theory and Applications - Volume 2: VISAPP , pages 511–518. IN-STICC, SciTePress, 2025. ISBN 978-989-758-728-3. . Xue Li, Xinlei Wang, and Guanghua Xiao. A compara-tive study of rank aggregation methods for partial and top ranked lists in genomic applications. Briefings in Bioinfor-Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

matics , 20(1):178–189, 08 2017. ISSN 1477-4054. . URL 

https://doi.org/10.1093/bib/bbx101 .Guang-Hai Liu, Lei Zhang, Ying-Kun Hou, Zuo-Yong Li, and Jing-Yu Yang. Image retrieval based on multi-texton histogram. Pattern Recognition , 43 (7):2380–2389, 2010. ISSN 0031-3203. . URL 

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/ article/pii/S0031320310000907 .Ze Liu, Yutong Lin, Yue Cao, Han Hu, Yixuan Wei, Zheng Zhang, Stephen Lin, and Baining Guo. Swin transformer: Hierarchical vision transformer using shifted windows. 

ICCV , 2021. Zhuang Liu, Hanzi Mao, Chao-Yuan Wu, Christoph Feicht-enhofer, Trevor Darrell, and Saining Xie. A convnet for the 2020s. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 11976–11986, June 2022. Wamidh K. Mutlag, Shaker K. Ali, Zahoor M. Aydam, and Bahaa H. Taher. Feature extraction methods: A review. 

Journal of Physics: Conference Series , 1591(1):012028, jul 2020. . URL https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/ 1742-6596/1591/1/012028 .Maria-Elena Nilsback and Andrew Zisserman. A visual vo-cabulary for flower classification. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , volume 2, pages 1447–1454, 2006. Stephen M. Omohundro. Five balltree construction algo-rithms. Technical report, International Computer Science Institute, 1989. Maxime Oquab, Timothée Darcet, Théo Moutakanni, Huy V. Vo, Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernan-dez, Daniel HAZIZA, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, Mido Assran, Nicolas Ballas, Wojciech Galuba, Russell Howes, Po-Yao Huang, Shang-Wen Li, Ishan Misra, Michael Rabbat, Vasu Sharma, Gabriel Synnaeve, Hu Xu, Herve Jegou, Julien Mairal, Patrick Labatut, Ar-mand Joulin, and Piotr Bojanowski. DINOv2: Learn-ing robust visual features without supervision. Trans-actions on Machine Learning Research , 2024. ISSN 2835-8856. URL https://openreview.net/forum? id=a68SUt6zFt . Featured Certification. Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zem-ing Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmai-son, Andreas Kopf, Edward Yang, Zachary DeVito, Mar-tin Raison, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and Soumith Chintala. Py-torch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learn-ing library. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelz-imer, F. d'Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett, editors, 

Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol-ume 32. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Lucas Pascotti Valem, Jurandy Almeida, and Ricardo da S. Torres. Multimedia re-trieval through unsupervised hypergraph-based manifold ranking. IEEE Transactions on Image Processing , 28(12): 5824–5838, 2019a. . Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Ying Weng, Alexandro Baldassin, and Chaohuan Hou. Semi-supervised and ac-tive learning through manifold reciprocal knn graph for im-age retrieval. Neurocomputing , 340:19–31, 2019b. ISSN 0925-2312. . Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Lucas Pascotti Valem, and Ricardo da Silva Torres. A bfs-tree of ranking refer-ences for unsupervised manifold learning. Pattern Recog-nition , 111, 2021a. 107666, ISSN 0031-3203. Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pedronette, Lucas Pascotti Valem, and Longin Jan Latecki. Efficient rank-based diffusion pro-cess with assured convergence. Journal of Imaging , 7(3), 2021b. ISSN 2313-433X. . URL https://www.mdpi. com/2313-433X/7/3/49 .Luca Piras and Giorgio Giacinto. Information fusion in con-tent based image retrieval: A comprehensive overview. In-formation Fusion , 37:50–60, 2017. ISSN 1566-2535. Reina Alya Rahma, Radityo Adi Nugroho, Dwi Kartini, Mo-hammad Reza Faisal, and Friska Abadi. Combination of texture feature extraction and forward selection for one-class support vector machine improvement in self-portrait classification. International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering , 13(1):425, 2023. Prithviraj Sen, Galileo Namata, Mustafa Bilgic, Lise Getoor, Brian Galligher, and Tina Eliassi-Rad. Collective classifi-cation in network data. AI Magazine , 29(3):93, Sep. 2008. . URL https://ojs.aaai.org/aimagazine/index. php/aimagazine/article/view/2157 .Ricardo da Silva Torres and Alexandre Xavier Falcão. Content-based image retrieval: Theory and applications. 

Revista de Informática Teórica e Aplicada , 13:161–185, 2006. Sandhya Tripathi and Christopher Ryan King. Contrastive learning: Big data foundations and applications. In Pro-ceedings of the 7th Joint International Conference on Data Science & Management of Data (11th ACM IKDD CODS and 29th COMAD) , CODS-COMAD ’24, page 493–497, New York, NY, USA, 2024. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400716348. Tobias Uelwer, Jan Robine, Stefan Sylvius Wagner, Marc Höftmann, Eric Upschulte, Sebastian Konietzny, Maike Behrendt, and Stefan Harmeling. A survey on self-supervised representation learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.11455 , 2023. Lucas Pascotti Valem and Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pe-dronette. An unsupervised distance learning framework for multimedia retrieval. International Conference on Mul-timedia Retrieval (ICMR) , 2017. URL https://github. com/UDLF/UDLF .Lucas Pascotti Valem and Daniel Carlos Guimarães Pe-dronette. Person re-id through unsupervised hypergraph rank selection and fusion. Image and Vision Computing ,123:104473, 2022. ISSN 0262-8856. . Lucas Pascotti Valem, Daniel Carlos Guimaraes Pedronette, and Longin Jan Latecki. Graph convolutional networks based on manifold learning for semi-supervised image classification. Computer Vision and Image Understand-ing , 227:103618, 2023. Aryan Vats and Manan Suri. A survey of graph and atten-tion based hyperspectral image classification methods for remote sensing data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.09994 ,Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09994 .Petar Veličković, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adri-ana Romero, Pietro Liò, and Yoshua Bengio. Graph atten-tion networks. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2018. Catherine Wah, Steve Branson, Peter Welinder, Pietro Per-ona, and Serge Belongie. The caltech-ucsd birds-200-2011 dataset. Jul 2011. Xiaogang Wang, Shi Qiu, Ke Liu, and Xiaoou Tang. Web image re-ranking using query-specific semantic signatures. 

IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intel-ligence , 36(4):810–823, 2014. . Xuejiao Wang, Zhen Hua, and Jinjiang Li. Multi-focus image fusion framework based on transformer and feed-back mechanism. Ain Shams Engineering Journal , 14(5): 101978, 2023. ISSN 2090-4479. . Felix Wu, Amauri Souza, Tianyi Zhang, Christopher Fifty, Tao Yu, and Kilian Weinberger. Simplifying graph con-volutional networks. In Kamalika Chaudhuri and Rus-lan Salakhutdinov, editors, Proceedings of the 36th In-ternational Conference on Machine Learning , volume 97 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 6861–6871. PMLR, 09–15 Jun 2019. URL https:// proceedings.mlr.press/v97/wu19e.html .Li Yuan, Yunpeng Chen, Tao Wang, Weihao Yu, Yujun Shi, Zi-Hang Jiang, Francis E.H. Tay, Jiashi Feng, and Shuicheng Yan. Tokens-to-token vit: Training vision trans-formers from scratch on imagenet. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , pages 558–567, October 2021. Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026  

> Table 2. Accuracy (%) of single-feature, cross-combination experiments on Flowers [Nilsback and Zisserman, 2006] dataset for SGC model. The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue.

Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 79.71 ± 0.0535 84.40 ± 0.0572 84.10 ± 0.0751 83.34 ± 0.0558 CNN-DPNet 78.19 ± 0.0686 82.34 ± 0.0725 82.20 ± 0.0491 82.06 ± 0.0610 CNN-SENet 74.24 ± 0.0542 75.68 ± 0.0850 76.42 ± 0.0811 77.32 ± 0.0122 T2T-VIT24 72.66 ± 0.1273 73.43 ± 0.0878 75.43 ± 0.0327 73.84 ± 0.0873 VIT-B16 93.21 ± 0.0545 95.64 ± 0.0348 97.24 ± 0.0217 96.49 ± 0.0411 SWIN-TF 95.19 ± 0.0515 98.67 ± 0.0415 99.71 ± 0.0033 99.47 ± 0.0052 

ConvNeXt 73.90 ± 0.0666 74.71 ± 0.0523 77.23 ± 0.0636 76.82 ± 0.0504 CNN-DPNet CNN-ResNet 78.11 ± 0.0354 83.75 ± 0.0608 83.42 ± 0.0367 82.73 ± 0.0364 CNN-DPNet 77.12 ± 0.0729 80.32 ± 0.0877 81.09 ± 0.0552 81.46 ± 0.1221 CNN-SENet 72.97 ± 0.1045 74.41 ± 0.0784 75.20 ± 0.0715 75.75 ± 0.0805 T2T-VIT24 70.33 ± 0.1484 71.96 ± 0.0290 74.23 ± 0.1061 72.84 ± 0.0489 VIT-B16 91.89 ± 0.0544 95.36 ± 0.0557 96.71 ± 0.0286 96.21 ± 0.0317 SWIN-TF 93.59 ± 0.0517 97.96 ± 0.0478 99.70 ± 0.0061 99.45 ± 0.0033 

ConvNeXt 72.75 ± 0.0599 73.47 ± 0.1430 76.39 ± 0.1073 75.92 ± 0.0480 CNN-SENet CNN-ResNet 79.36 ± 0.0965 83.96 ± 0.0574 83.93 ± 0.0675 83.10 ± 0.0339 CNN-DPNet 78.31 ± 0.0800 81.14 ± 0.1008 81.96 ± 0.0328 82.02 ± 0.0890 CNN-SENet 72.98 ± 0.0796 74.00 ± 0.0810 75.06 ± 0.0360 75.13 ± 0.0329 T2T-VIT24 70.60 ± 0.1037 72.28 ± 0.1096 75.45 ± 0.0704 72.89 ± 0.0680 VIT-B16 92.34 ± 0.0415 95.26 ± 0.0229 96.97 ± 0.0122 96.33 ± 0.0122 SWIN-TF 95.18 ± 0.0710 98.52 ± 0.0228 99.73 ± 0.0033 99.41 ± 0.0120 

ConvNeXt 72.58 ± 0.1402 73.75 ± 0.0562 76.97 ± 0.0481 76.32 ± 0.0573 T2T-VIT24 CNN-ResNet 79.32 ± 0.0907 83.80 ± 0.0486 84.13 ± 0.0370 83.34 ± 0.0638 CNN-DPNet 77.86 ± 0.1106 80.99 ± 0.1525 81.91 ± 0.0635 81.86 ± 0.0421 CNN-SENet 72.93 ± 0.1181 75.04 ± 0.0586 76.57 ± 0.0551 76.60 ± 0.0636 T2T-VIT24 70.01 ± 0.0875 72.24 ± 0.0744 75.18 ± 0.0464 72.81 ± 0.0396 VIT-B16 91.82 ± 0.1026 95.06 ± 0.0452 96.41 ± 0.0565 95.94 ± 0.0248 SWIN-TF 94.54 ± 0.0508 98.32 ± 0.0116 99.69 ± 0.0052 99.42 ± 0.0065 

ConvNeXt 73.13 ± 0.0904 74.00 ± 0.0446 77.02 ± 0.0387 76.51 ± 0.0353 VIT-B16 CNN-ResNet 83.72 ± 0.0946 88.41 ± 0.0701 86.89 ± 0.0203 86.57 ± 0.0460 CNN-DPNet 80.50 ± 0.0467 85.54 ± 0.1778 84.96 ± 0.0543 85.32 ± 0.1092 CNN-SENet 77.38 ± 0.1694 80.02 ± 0.0543 79.31 ± 0.1119 81.63 ± 0.0930 T2T-VIT24 75.64 ± 0.0507 77.33 ± 0.1030 78.46 ± 0.0873 76.87 ± 0.0742 VIT-B16 92.85 ± 0.0308 95.89 ± 0.0378 96.95 ± 0.0228 96.39 ± 0.0360 SWIN-TF 97.33 ± 0.0339 99.20 ± 0.0116 99.49 ± 0.0000 99.49 ± 0.0000 

ConvNeXt 77.56 ± 0.0942 78.22 ± 0.0698 79.45 ± 0.0771 78.90 ± 0.0617 SWIN-TF CNN-ResNet 84.03 ± 0.0623 86.46 ± 0.0419 85.69 ± 0.0335 85.36 ± 0.0152 CNN-DPNet 82.52 ± 0.0352 83.94 ± 0.1151 83.76 ± 0.0152 83.78 ± 0.0152 CNN-SENet 77.51 ± 0.0469 77.64 ± 0.0449 77.92 ± 0.0425 79.34 ± 0.0411 T2T-VIT24 76.96 ± 0.1055 75.15 ± 0.0320 76.49 ± 0.0228 75.77 ± 0.0524 VIT-B16 94.63 ± 0.0290 95.93 ± 0.0152 97.25 ± 0.0152 96.61 ± 0.0089 SWIN-TF 97.06 ± 0.0331 99.02 ± 0.0116 99.58 ± 0.0052 99.44 ± 0.0033 

ConvNeXt 77.38 ± 0.0711 76.53 ± 0.0314 78.19 ± 0.0363 78.40 ± 0.0348 ConvNeXt CNN-ResNet 79.21 ± 0.0333 84.68 ± 0.0545 84.72 ± 0.0245 83.30 ± 0.0223 CNN-DPNet 77.66 ± 0.0261 82.25 ± 0.0290 82.76 ± 0.0222 82.54 ± 0.0142 CNN-SENet 73.82 ± 0.0595 76.07 ± 0.0222 76.70 ± 0.0329 77.43 ± 0.0248 T2T-VIT24 71.52 ± 0.0525 73.86 ± 0.0487 76.19 ± 0.0513 74.14 ± 0.0111 VIT-B16 92.67 ± 0.0133 95.48 ± 0.0083 97.37 ± 0.0089 96.54 ± 0.0083 SWIN-TF 94.37 ± 0.0543 98.40 ± 0.0167 99.66 ± 0.0052 99.50 ± 0.0000 

ConvNeXt 73.32 ± 0.0478 74.75 ± 0.0364 76.88 ± 0.0176 76.49 ± 0.0429 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

Table 3. Accuracy (%) of single-feature, cross-combination experiments on Corel5k [Liu et al., 2010] dataset for SGC model. The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 89.59 ± 0.0541 91.22 ± 0.0203 91.47 ± 0.0329 91.95 ± 0.0212 CNN-DPNet 88.17 ± 0.0496 89.88 ± 0.0618 90.05 ± 0.0360 90.10 ± 0.0299 CNN-SENet 90.18 ± 0.0624 90.39 ± 0.0601 90.84 ± 0.0260 91.45 ± 0.0242 T2T-VIT24 90.22 ± 0.0348 91.37 ± 0.0792 91.97 ± 0.0421 92.10 ± 0.0262 VIT-B16 94.16 ± 0.0187 94.91 ± 0.0241 94.46 ± 0.0342 94.70 ± 0.0195 SWIN-TF 95.24 ± 0.0366 96.10 ± 0.0685 97.73 ± 0.0346 97.44 ± 0.0512 

DINOv2 93.76 ± 0.0385 95.40 ± 0.0408 95.76 ± 0.0382 95.72 ± 0.0511 ConvNeXt 89.42 ± 0.0395 91.06 ± 0.0595 91.79 ± 0.0358 92.00 ± 0.0210 CNN-DPNet CNN-ResNet 89.73 ± 0.0386 91.24 ± 0.0123 91.21 ± 0.0504 92.01 ± 0.0235 CNN-DPNet 86.77 ± 0.1132 88.84 ± 0.1015 88.92 ± 0.0989 89.28 ± 0.0246 CNN-SENet 89.21 ± 0.0279 89.77 ± 0.0380 90.34 ± 0.0257 91.04 ± 0.0376 T2T-VIT24 88.70 ± 0.0521 90.65 ± 0.0474 91.61 ± 0.0422 91.76 ± 0.0471 VIT-B16 93.30 ± 0.0747 94.14 ± 0.0609 94.03 ± 0.0651 94.15 ± 0.1241 SWIN-TF 94.57 ± 0.0480 96.09 ± 0.0555 97.17 ± 0.0450 96.94 ± 0.0815 

DINOv2 93.54 ± 0.1151 95.08 ± 0.0426 95.55 ± 0.0578 95.37 ± 0.0431 ConvNeXt 88.28 ± 0.0760 90.46 ± 0.0351 91.43 ± 0.0575 91.63 ± 0.0402 CNN-SENet CNN-ResNet 90.15 ± 0.0346 91.62 ± 0.0309 91.50 ± 0.0244 92.15 ± 0.0202 CNN-DPNet 88.35 ± 0.0350 89.59 ± 0.0387 89.83 ± 0.0693 89.83 ± 0.0370 CNN-SENet 89.84 ± 0.0421 89.92 ± 0.0574 90.66 ± 0.0451 91.41 ± 0.0137 T2T-VIT24 89.91 ± 0.0258 90.84 ± 0.0465 91.96 ± 0.0476 92.06 ± 0.0500 VIT-B16 93.94 ± 0.0402 94.77 ± 0.0538 94.25 ± 0.0225 94.59 ± 0.0106 SWIN-TF 95.31 ± 0.0165 96.32 ± 0.0209 97.63 ± 0.0342 97.52 ± 0.0187 

DINOv2 93.84 ± 0.0275 95.51 ± 0.0490 95.59 ± 0.0381 95.65 ± 0.0364 ConvNeXt 89.36 ± 0.0207 90.82 ± 0.0377 91.24 ± 0.0217 91.84 ± 0.0324 T2T-VIT24 CNN-ResNet 90.32 ± 0.0553 91.73 ± 0.0582 91.61 ± 0.0435 92.38 ± 0.0363 CNN-DPNet 88.25 ± 0.0326 89.66 ± 0.0386 89.94 ± 0.0483 89.99 ± 0.0353 CNN-SENet 90.12 ± 0.0395 90.30 ± 0.0546 91.19 ± 0.0498 91.55 ± 0.0574 T2T-VIT24 88.91 ± 0.0566 90.55 ± 0.0336 91.79 ± 0.0791 91.70 ± 0.0601 VIT-B16 93.55 ± 0.0540 94.43 ± 0.0589 94.02 ± 0.0291 94.45 ± 0.0392 SWIN-TF 95.34 ± 0.0447 96.16 ± 0.0362 97.33 ± 0.0644 97.26 ± 0.0591 

DINOv2 93.94 ± 0.0286 95.44 ± 0.1092 95.36 ± 0.0296 95.65 ± 0.0643 ConvNeXt 89.29 ± 0.0421 91.03 ± 0.1197 91.52 ± 0.0478 91.70 ± 0.0499 VIT-B16 CNN-ResNet 91.88 ± 0.0428 93.48 ± 0.0646 93.35 ± 0.0418 93.70 ± 0.0357 CNN-DPNet 90.10 ± 0.0463 92.29 ± 0.0593 92.30 ± 0.0292 92.34 ± 0.0337 CNN-SENet 91.99 ± 0.0347 92.62 ± 0.0314 93.00 ± 0.0546 93.39 ± 0.0145 T2T-VIT24 91.35 ± 0.0447 92.83 ± 0.0609 93.22 ± 0.0250 93.44 ± 0.0424 VIT-B16 93.40 ± 0.0301 95.22 ± 0.0267 94.76 ± 0.0469 95.29 ± 0.0372 SWIN-TF 96.39 ± 0.0409 97.24 ± 0.0827 98.53 ± 0.0090 98.38 ± 0.0141 

DINOv2 94.68 ± 0.0355 96.54 ± 0.0204 96.57 ± 0.0308 96.58 ± 0.0346 ConvNeXt 90.57 ± 0.0470 92.74 ± 0.1172 93.06 ± 0.0484 93.70 ± 0.0374 SWIN-TF CNN-ResNet 91.29 ± 0.0266 92.34 ± 0.0168 92.37 ± 0.0239 92.80 ± 0.0099 CNN-DPNet 89.69 ± 0.0236 90.50 ± 0.0487 90.79 ± 0.0334 90.67 ± 0.0259 CNN-SENet 91.33 ± 0.0337 91.07 ± 0.0320 91.70 ± 0.0434 92.07 ± 0.0722 T2T-VIT24 91.45 ± 0.0212 91.61 ± 0.0306 92.06 ± 0.0191 92.71 ± 0.0162 VIT-B16 94.41 ± 0.0472 95.21 ± 0.0633 94.62 ± 0.0338 95.17 ± 0.0671 SWIN-TF 95.89 ± 0.0276 96.60 ± 0.0606 98.23 ± 0.0165 97.86 ± 0.0542 

DINOv2 94.46 ± 0.0258 95.87 ± 0.0116 95.94 ± 0.0103 95.87 ± 0.0283 ConvNeXt 90.81 ± 0.0424 91.51 ± 0.0380 92.22 ± 0.0359 92.71 ± 0.0354 DINOv2 CNN-ResNet 90.83 ± 0.0668 91.83 ± 0.0512 91.78 ± 0.0614 92.41 ± 0.0367 CNN-DPNet 89.14 ± 0.0531 90.21 ± 0.0152 90.10 ± 0.1200 90.17 ± 0.0949 CNN-SENet 91.11 ± 0.0412 90.34 ± 0.0451 91.27 ± 0.0813 91.56 ± 0.0418 T2T-VIT24 90.91 ± 0.0152 90.83 ± 0.1007 91.46 ± 0.1288 92.25 ± 0.0244 VIT-B16 93.94 ± 0.0572 94.56 ± 0.0975 94.07 ± 0.1105 94.01 ± 0.1126 SWIN-TF 95.68 ± 0.0547 96.17 ± 0.0924 97.50 ± 0.0579 97.47 ± 0.0421 

DINOv2 93.37 ± 0.0550 95.11 ± 0.0971 94.86 ± 0.0557 94.99 ± 0.0797 ConvNeXt 90.47 ± 0.0576 91.14 ± 0.0647 91.66 ± 0.0749 92.04 ± 0.0497 ConvNeXt CNN-ResNet 91.29 ± 0.0226 92.83 ± 0.0470 92.51 ± 0.0051 93.23 ± 0.0173 CNN-DPNet 89.20 ± 0.0187 91.30 ± 0.0128 91.27 ± 0.0230 91.52 ± 0.0438 CNN-SENet 90.95 ± 0.0177 91.47 ± 0.0340 92.00 ± 0.0049 92.68 ± 0.0290 T2T-VIT24 90.59 ± 0.0351 91.75 ± 0.0346 92.61 ± 0.0094 93.00 ± 0.0065 VIT-B16 94.36 ± 0.0081 95.00 ± 0.0269 94.58 ± 0.0413 94.99 ± 0.0056 SWIN-TF 95.70 ± 0.0160 96.79 ± 0.0657 97.51 ± 0.0027 97.64 ± 0.0219 

DINOv2 94.80 ± 0.0180 95.57 ± 0.0502 95.66 ± 0.0104 95.97 ± 0.0127 ConvNeXt 89.81 ± 0.0076 91.29 ± 0.0319 91.92 ± 0.0191 92.72 ± 0.0438 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026  

> Table 4. Accuracy (%) of single-feature, cross-combination experiments on CUB200 [Wah et al., 2011] dataset for SGC model. The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue.

Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 47.03 ± 0.0203 51.53 ± 0.0317 51.81 ± 0.0340 51.67 ± 0.0331 CNN-DPNet 48.15 ± 0.0508 52.19 ± 0.0216 53.35 ± 0.0324 53.00 ± 0.0430 CNN-SENet 37.85 ± 0.0425 37.37 ± 0.0382 38.85 ± 0.0249 39.38 ± 0.0547 T2T-VIT24 41.09 ± 0.0281 40.02 ± 0.0368 42.08 ± 0.0260 42.51 ± 0.0700 VIT-B16 74.26 ± 0.0178 77.57 ± 0.0472 78.80 ± 0.0108 78.16 ± 0.0213 SWIN-TF 75.74 ± 0.0377 79.47 ± 0.0188 82.25 ± 0.0227 80.38 ± 0.0231 

ConvNeXt 42.60 ± 0.0273 39.67 ± 0.0821 42.00 ± 0.0489 42.52 ± 0.0305 CNN-DPNet CNN-ResNet 40.51 ± 0.4443 50.38 ± 0.0930 49.70 ± 0.0790 49.52 ± 0.0756 CNN-DPNet 45.40 ± 0.1891 50.92 ± 0.0622 51.15 ± 0.0532 51.00 ± 0.0953 CNN-SENet 30.28 ± 0.3589 36.39 ± 0.1325 36.94 ± 0.1117 37.50 ± 0.0576 T2T-VIT24 33.12 ± 0.3675 37.91 ± 0.4000 40.44 ± 0.1447 40.84 ± 0.1117 VIT-B16 71.72 ± 0.1885 76.81 ± 0.0979 77.91 ± 0.0485 76.87 ± 0.0653 SWIN-TF 73.10 ± 0.2510 78.85 ± 0.2415 81.58 ± 0.0663 79.76 ± 0.0488 

ConvNeXt 36.34 ± 0.0961 38.69 ± 0.0622 40.20 ± 0.0705 41.10 ± 0.0938 CNN-SENet CNN-ResNet 44.98 ± 0.0679 50.52 ± 0.0431 51.39 ± 0.0197 51.11 ± 0.0346 CNN-DPNet 46.74 ± 0.0352 50.69 ± 0.0213 52.33 ± 0.0448 51.93 ± 0.0147 CNN-SENet 36.27 ± 0.0481 35.62 ± 0.0292 37.54 ± 0.0236 37.53 ± 0.0391 T2T-VIT24 38.71 ± 0.0610 38.34 ± 0.0184 41.22 ± 0.0116 40.73 ± 0.0218 VIT-B16 73.40 ± 0.0162 76.43 ± 0.0130 78.36 ± 0.0260 77.58 ± 0.0144 SWIN-TF 74.75 ± 0.0272 77.97 ± 0.0255 82.02 ± 0.0140 79.77 ± 0.0128 

ConvNeXt 40.40 ± 0.0397 38.02 ± 0.0368 40.91 ± 0.0106 40.96 ± 0.0242 VIT-B16 CNN-ResNet 46.46 ± 0.2205 52.29 ± 0.1122 51.55 ± 0.0670 51.89 ± 0.0616 CNN-DPNet 48.40 ± 0.0859 53.28 ± 0.0309 53.07 ± 0.0330 53.45 ± 0.0879 CNN-SENet 36.75 ± 0.0718 38.46 ± 0.0471 38.52 ± 0.0773 39.57 ± 0.1070 T2T-VIT24 41.59 ± 0.1819 40.76 ± 0.1085 42.30 ± 0.1034 42.97 ± 0.0477 VIT-B16 73.89 ± 0.0820 77.76 ± 0.0426 78.21 ± 0.0510 77.45 ± 0.0819 SWIN-TF 77.85 ± 0.0576 80.53 ± 0.1050 82.03 ± 0.0388 80.65 ± 0.0409 

ConvNeXt 42.80 ± 0.0871 40.42 ± 0.1058 41.71 ± 0.1208 43.01 ± 0.0512 SWIN-TF CNN-ResNet 50.59 ± 0.0121 51.76 ± 0.0217 53.06 ± 0.0291 53.38 ± 0.0221 CNN-DPNet 51.59 ± 0.0143 52.11 ± 0.0427 53.89 ± 0.0136 54.08 ± 0.0122 CNN-SENet 39.88 ± 0.0134 37.16 ± 0.0203 39.56 ± 0.0199 40.33 ± 0.0212 T2T-VIT24 45.06 ± 0.0072 39.61 ± 0.024 42.71 ± 0.0266 42.81 ± 0.0196 VIT-B16 75.48 ± 0.0097 77.08 ± 0.031 78.66 ± 0.0188 78.07 ± 0.0236 SWIN-TF 77.51 ± 0.0181 78.92 ± 0.0054 81.86 ± 0.0232 79.75 ± 0.0168 

ConvNeXt 44.78 ± 0.0110 39.02 ± 0.0136 42.31 ± 0.0333 42.89 ± 0.0145 ConvNeXt CNN-ResNet 46.25 ± 0.0087 51.25 ± 0.0092 50.96 ± 0.0023 50.90 ± 0.0016 CNN-DPNet 47.35 ± 0.0105 51.47 ± 0.0090 51.84 ± 0.0043 51.82 ± 0.0040 CNN-SENet 37.47 ± 0.0190 37.31 ± 0.0073 37.87 ± 0.0020 38.29 ± 0.0019 T2T-VIT24 40.50 ± 0.0104 39.64 ± 0.0054 41.36 ± 0.0054 41.53 ± 0.0021 VIT-B16 73.54 ± 0.0062 76.81 ± 0.0048 78.17 ± 0.0023 77.23 ± 0.0015 SWIN-TF 74.01 ± 0.0058 78.37 ± 0.0077 81.67 ± 0.0008 80.01 ± 0.0023 

ConvNeXt 41.81 ± 0.0073 38.95 ± 0.0040 40.09 ± 0.0026 40.75 ± 0.0018 T2T-VIT24 CNN-ResNet 45.87 ± 0.0237 50.13 ± 0.0210 51.48 ± 0.0229 51.07 ± 0.0173 CNN-DPNet 47.08 ± 0.0159 50.35 ± 0.0143 52.64 ± 0.0293 52.17 ± 0.0069 CNN-SENet 36.01 ± 0.0144 35.73 ± 0.0117 38.36 ± 0.0104 38.39 ± 0.0178 T2T-VIT24 39.12 ± 0.0245 37.47 ± 0.0146 40.27 ± 0.0156 39.82 ± 0.0134 VIT-B16 73.54 ± 0.0144 75.98 ± 0.0191 78.35 ± 0.0105 77.55 ± 0.0141 SWIN-TF 74.21 ± 0.0167 77.17 ± 0.0259 81.79 ± 0.0155 79.20 ± 0.0158 

ConvNeXt 40.30 ± 0.0180 37.56 ± 0.0166 40.87 ± 0.0173 40.91 ± 0.0157 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

Table 5. Accuracy (%) of best single and best combination results across datasets for SGC using single-feature graphs and single-extractor features . For each manifold learning method (LHRR, RDPAC, BFSTREE), we report: Best Single , defined as the highest mean accuracy among results where the backbone is the same (Features = Graph), and Best Combination , defined as the highest mean accuracy entries where backbone is different (Features ̸ = Graph). Relative Gain corresponds to the percentage improvement of Best Combination over Best Single for the same manifold learning setting. 

Flowers Dataset Manifold Best Single (Baseline) Best Combination Relative Statistical Tests Learning Feature Accuracy (%) Features Graph Accuracy (%) Gain Wilcoxon p Cohen’s d

None SWIN-TF 97.06 ± 0.0331 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 97.33 ± 0.0339 +0.28% 3.23 × 10 −5 0.5086 LHRR SWIN-TF 99.02 ± 0.0116 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 99.20 ± 0.0116 +0.18% 1.78 × 10 −5 0.7685 RDPAC SWIN-TF 99.58 ± 0.0052 CNN-SENet SWIN-TF 99.73 ± 0.0033 +0.15% 9.04 × 10 −8 1.2059 BFSTREE SWIN-TF 99.44 ± 0.0033 ConvNeXt SWIN-TF 99.50 ± 0.0000 +0.06% 2.09 × 10 −5 0.4863 

Corel5k Dataset Manifold Best Single (Baseline) Best Combination Relative Statistical Tests Learning Feature Accuracy (%) Features Graph Accuracy (%) Gain Wilcoxon p Cohen’s d

None SWIN-TF 95.89 ± 0.0276 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 96.39 ± 0.0409 +0.52% 6.39 × 10 −8 1.2592 LHRR SWIN-TF 96.60 ± 0.0606 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 97.24 ± 0.0827 +0.66% 5.78 × 10 −8 0.7767 RDPAC SWIN-TF 98.23 ± 0.0165 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 98.53 ± 0.0090 +0.31% 2.13 × 10 −8 1.2293 BFSTREE SWIN-TF 97.86 ± 0.0542 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 98.38 ± 0.0141 +0.53% 2.49 × 10 −9 1.7120 

CUB200 Dataset Manifold Best Single (Baseline) Best Combination Relative Statistical Tests Learning Feature Accuracy (%) Features Graph Accuracy (%) Gain Wilcoxon p Cohen’s d

None SWIN-TF 77.51 ± 0.0181 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 77.85 ± 0.0576 +0.44% 3.36 × 10 −4 0.6513 LHRR SWIN-TF 78.92 ± 0.0054 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 80.53 ± 0.1050 +2.04% 7.53 × 10 −10 2.7154 RDPAC SWIN-TF 81.86 ± 0.0232 CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 82.25 ± 0.0227 +0.48% 3.14 × 10 −9 1.1440 BFSTREE SWIN-TF 79.75 ± 0.0168 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 80.65 ± 0.0409 +1.13% 1.76 × 10 −9 1.8928 

Table 6. Accuracy (%) of single-feature, cross-combination experiments on Flowers [Nilsback and Zisserman, 2006] dataset for different GNN models . The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Network Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE GCN CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 95.38 ± 0.0248 98.54 ± 0.0431 99.71 ± 0.0052 99.44 ± 0.0307 CNN-DPNet 93.99 ± 0.1042 98.03 ± 0.0661 99.69 ± 0.0122 99.42 ± 0.0211 CNN-SENet 95.06 ± 0.0870 98.36 ± 0.0884 99.73 ± 0.0122 99.34 ± 0.0270 T2T-VIT24 94.76 ± 0.0521 98.30 ± 0.0462 99.68 ± 0.0111 99.38 ± 0.0692 VIT-B16 97.29 ± 0.1101 99.22 ± 0.0197 99.49 ± 0.0040 99.49 ± 0.0229 

SWIN-TF 97.09 ± 0.0871 99.02 ± 0.0168 99.58 ± 0.0095 99.44 ± 0.0095 ConvNeXt 94.52 ± 0.0722 98.31 ± 0.0583 99.65 ± 0.0083 99.43 ± 0.0391 GAT CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 96.04 ± 0.1724 98.56 ± 0.0245 99.71 ± 0.0344 99.50 ± 0.0367 

CNN-DPNet 95.17 ± 0.1316 98.08 ± 0.1128 99.69 ± 0.0228 99.48 ± 0.0255 CNN-SENet 96.11 ± 0.0968 98.54 ± 0.0458 99.68 ± 0.0197 99.47 ± 0.0626 T2T-VIT24 95.94 ± 0.0613 98.27 ± 0.0735 99.59 ± 0.0378 99.34 ± 0.0755 VIT-B16 97.53 ± 0.1306 99.08 ± 0.2245 99.48 ± 0.0120 99.47 ± 0.1336 SWIN-TF 98.07 ± 0.0470 99.04 ± 0.0280 99.50 ± 0.0273 99.43 ± 0.0779 ConvNeXt 95.73 ± 0.1811 98.33 ± 0.1009 99.61 ± 0.0246 99.41 ± 0.0597 APPNP CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 95.84 ± 0.2240 99.11 ± 0.0548 99.68 ± 0.0183 99.57 ± 0.0228 CNN-DPNet 95.51 ± 0.1488 98.71 ± 0.0484 99.70 ± 0.0108 99.53 ± 0.0368 CNN-SENet 96.02 ± 0.1292 98.97 ± 0.0329 99.63 ± 0.0171 99.57 ± 0.0189 T2T-VIT24 95.98 ± 0.1242 99.01 ± 0.0286 99.64 ± 0.0095 99.53 ± 0.0235 VIT-B16 96.10 ± 0.4908 99.25 ± 0.0111 99.42 ± 0.0266 99.54 ± 0.0095 SWIN-TF 97.46 ± 0.0356 99.08 ± 0.0160 99.60 ± 0.0120 99.55 ± 0.0083 ConvNeXt 95.60 ± 0.1634 99.06 ± 0.0189 99.57 ± 0.0189 99.57 ± 0.0065 

ARMA CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 95.38 ± 0.1652 98.67 ± 0.0642 99.70 ± 0.0158 99.50 ± 0.0250 CNN-DPNet 94.48 ± 0.1094 98.17 ± 0.0303 99.69 ± 0.0217 99.42 ± 0.0782 CNN-SENet 95.44 ± 0.1526 98.62 ± 0.0437 99.66 ± 0.0300 99.42 ± 0.0356 T2T-VIT24 95.31 ± 0.1206 98.62 ± 0.1191 99.67 ± 0.0250 99.36 ± 0.0418 VIT-B16 97.18 ± 0.1126 99.07 ± 0.0565 99.48 ± 0.0203 99.49 ± 0.0261 SWIN-TF 98.06 ± 0.0711 99.10 ± 0.0409 99.63 ± 0.0122 99.50 ± 0.0065 

ConvNeXt 94.91 ± 0.0911 98.40 ± 0.0851 99.63 ± 0.0137 99.36 ± 0.0915 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

Table 7. Accuracy (%) of single-feature, cross-combination experiments on Corel5k [Liu et al., 2010] dataset for different GNN models .The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Network Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE GCN CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 96.47 ± 0.1550 97.32 ± 0.1540 97.88 ± 0.1486 97.48 ± 0.1637 CNN-DPNet 95.84 ± 0.0906 96.89 ± 0.1504 97.46 ± 0.1555 97.13 ± 0.1758 CNN-SENet 96.70 ± 0.0609 97.46 ± 0.1232 97.82 ± 0.1148 97.40 ± 0.1608 T2T-VIT24 97.03 ± 0.0809 97.56 ± 0.1824 98.00 ± 0.1137 97.77 ± 0.0740 VIT-B16 96.80 ± 0.1922 97.52 ± 0.0918 97.98 ± 0.1390 97.90 ± 0.2328 

SWIN-TF 97.72 ± 0.1403 97.48 ± 0.1364 98.04 ± 0.1205 97.67 ± 0.1509 DINOv2 96.86 ± 0.0917 97.22 ± 0.2113 97.59 ± 0.1222 97.15 ± 0.2018 ConvNeXt 97.29 ± 0.0408 97.25 ± 0.0675 97.60 ± 0.1212 97.44 ± 0.1055 GAT CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 96.52 ± 0.1319 97.30 ± 0.1370 97.75 ± 0.1546 97.52 ± 0.0775 CNN-DPNet 96.00 ± 0.0781 96.92 ± 0.1183 97.45 ± 0.1623 97.34 ± 0.0948 CNN-SENet 96.68 ± 0.0512 97.32 ± 0.2041 97.67 ± 0.0874 97.17 ± 0.0683 T2T-VIT24 97.04 ± 0.0581 97.53 ± 0.0543 97.95 ± 0.0441 97.79 ± 0.0093 VIT-B16 97.26 ± 0.0771 97.83 ± 0.0759 98.24 ± 0.0950 98.14 ± 0.0233 

SWIN-TF 97.66 ± 0.0743 97.73 ± 0.0576 98.04 ± 0.0558 97.71 ± 0.0628 DINOv2 97.28 ± 0.0621 97.70 ± 0.1532 98.03 ± 0.0450 97.74 ± 0.0323 ConvNeXt 97.31 ± 0.0414 97.02 ± 0.0900 97.56 ± 0.0421 97.45 ± 0.0564 APPNP CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 97.10 ± 0.0712 97.50 ± 0.1337 98.22 ± 0.0683 97.87 ± 0.0886 CNN-DPNet 96.84 ± 0.0877 97.32 ± 0.0748 97.80 ± 0.1679 97.72 ± 0.0353 CNN-SENet 97.28 ± 0.0369 97.71 ± 0.1040 98.26 ± 0.0740 97.93 ± 0.0374 T2T-VIT24 97.61 ± 0.0714 97.97 ± 0.0939 98.34 ± 0.0169 98.23 ± 0.0382 VIT-B16 96.94 ± 0.1224 97.78 ± 0.1220 98.16 ± 0.0899 98.06 ± 0.1015 SWIN-TF 98.19 ± 0.1122 98.11 ± 0.0546 98.43 ± 0.0485 98.30 ± 0.0156 

DINOv2 97.87 ± 0.0213 98.19 ± 0.0368 98.30 ± 0.0740 98.13 ± 0.0174 ConvNeXt 97.60 ± 0.0648 97.26 ± 0.0376 97.83 ± 0.0765 97.75 ± 0.1476 ARMA CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 96.61 ± 0.0787 97.41 ± 0.1333 97.74 ± 0.0412 97.67 ± 0.1164 CNN-DPNet 96.25 ± 0.1116 97.16 ± 0.1212 97.82 ± 0.0767 97.46 ± 0.1140 CNN-SENet 96.91 ± 0.0889 97.67 ± 0.1123 97.97 ± 0.1118 97.78 ± 0.0988 T2T-VIT24 97.13 ± 0.0649 97.67 ± 0.0535 98.09 ± 0.0803 98.01 ± 0.1423 VIT-B16 96.21 ± 0.1380 97.25 ± 0.1322 97.55 ± 0.2195 97.63 ± 0.0643 SWIN-TF 97.88 ± 0.0653 97.91 ± 0.0833 98.23 ± 0.0591 98.13 ± 0.0589 

DINOv2 97.56 ± 0.0618 97.98 ± 0.0688 98.17 ± 0.0444 98.09 ± 0.0204 ConvNeXt 97.18 ± 0.0587 97.32 ± 0.1198 97.71 ± 0.1112 97.57 ± 0.1076 

Table 8. Accuracy (%) of single-feature, cross-combination experiments on CUB200 [Wah et al., 2011] dataset for different GNN models .The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Network Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE GCN CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 17.64 ± 5.0767 38.58 ± 6.7136 72.09 ± 3.0904 65.76 ± 2.5238 CNN-DPNet 03.18 ± 0.9560 05.45 ± 1.2315 17.12 ± 6.0066 15.89 ± 3.5367 CNN-SENet 64.83 ± 1.7785 75.26 ± 0.1836 81.03 ± 0.1074 78.70 ± 0.0821 VIT-B16 33.04 ± 1.7061 58.45 ± 1.6373 77.12 ± 0.5726 72.72 ± 0.9333 SWIN-TF 76.47 ± 0.0931 78.51 ± 0.0491 81.30 ± 0.0776 79.35 ± 0.0645 

ConvNeXt 72.03 ± 0.1136 76.92 ± 0.105 81.32 ± 0.0717 79.24 ± 0.0778 T2T-VIT24 72.29 ± 0.1507 76.64 ± 0.1163 81.10 ± 0.0416 78.77 ± 0.0686 GAT CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 52.60 ± 1.8634 66.35 ± 1.0454 60.37 ± 6.3609 64.52 ± 5.5450 CNN-DPNet 07.53 ± 1.2215 09.87 ± 2.4491 07.56 ± 1.8992 09.05 ± 2.2382 CNN-SENet 65.38 ± 0.8276 74.00 ± 0.2773 77.91 ± 0.4381 76.40 ± 0.1994 VIT-B16 38.52 ± 1.7278 59.34 ± 1.5749 67.67 ± 2.1054 63.62 ± 2.1208 SWIN-TF 76.08 ± 0.1542 78.27 ± 0.1172 80.46 ± 0.2204 78.88 ± 0.1651 

ConvNeXt 71.86 ± 0.2044 76.43 ± 0.1536 80.32 ± 0.1233 78.20 ± 0.0819 T2T-VIT24 71.33 ± 0.4557 75.99 ± 0.1054 79.76 ± 0.2820 77.84 ± 0.2428 APPNP CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 02.86 ± 1.3152 19.16 ± 3.0704 69.05 ± 0.8720 52.49 ± 3.3811 CNN-DPNet 00.54 ± 0.0708 00.67 ± 0.1312 12.23 ± 3.4327 03.71 ± 1.1304 CNN-SENet 66.67 ± 0.5451 76.49 ± 0.2134 79.94 ± 0.1822 78.02 ± 0.1393 VIT-B16 00.75 ± 0.0827 02.47 ± 1.0947 51.63 ± 1.4268 29.03 ± 3.9933 SWIN-TF 76.33 ± 0.1566 79.23 ± 0.0918 81.80 ± 0.0791 80.16 ± 0.0624 

ConvNeXt 71.66 ± 0.0606 77.38 ± 0.1273 79.85 ± 0.1657 78.26 ± 0.0812 T2T-VIT24 73.32 ± 0.2045 78.03 ± 0.1607 80.58 ± 0.1962 78.72 ± 0.0587 ARMA CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 41.77 ± 4.0646 61.29 ± 3.5696 74.47 ± 2.8047 69.93 ± 2.6916 CNN-DPNet 08.93 ± 1.4579 26.23 ± 1.0546 36.26 ± 6.5047 36.90 ± 2.8655 CNN-SENet 65.78 ± 0.5155 73.07 ± 1.7230 79.42 ± 0.1673 76.97 ± 0.2455 VIT-B16 23.18 ± 3.2290 46.30 ± 5.1995 48.88 ± 7.8697 47.60 ± 3.3173 SWIN-TF 76.05 ± 0.0796 79.89 ± 0.1072 82.10 ± 0.0824 80.62 ± 0.1279 

ConvNeXt 69.81 ± 0.1981 75.34 ± 0.1497 79.73 ± 0.0496 77.70 ± 0.1995 T2T-VIT24 70.96 ± 0.1314 76.50 ± 0.1509 80.32 ± 0.1990 78.29 ± 0.1908 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026  

> Table 9. Accuracy (%) comparison between the best cross-combinations of heterogeneous features and graph obtained from different backbones and the isolated SWIN-TF baseline (feature and graph from the same backbone, without manifold learning) across different GNN models for each dataset.

Flowers Dataset GNN Baseline (SWIN-TF) Best Combination Relative Model without M.L. Features Graph M.L. Accuracy (%) Gain 

SGC 97 .06 ± 0.0331 CNN-SENet SWIN-TF RDPAC 99.73 ± 0.0033 +2.75% 

GCN 97 .09 ± 0.0871 CNN-SENet SWIN-TF RDPAC 99.73 ± 0.0122 +2.72% 

GAT 98 .07 ± 0.0470 CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF RDPAC 99 .71 ± 0.0344 +1.67% 

APPNP 97 .46 ± 0.0356 CNN-DPNet SWIN-TF RDPAC 99 .70 ± 0.0108 +2.30% 

ARMA 98 .06 ± 0.0711 CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF RDPAC 99 .70 ± 0.0158 +1.67% Corel5k Dataset GNN Baseline (SWIN-TF) Best Combination Relative Model without M.L. Features Graph M.L. Accuracy (%) Gain 

SGC 95 .89 ± 0.0276 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF RDPAC 98.53 ± 0.0090 +2.75% 

GCN 97 .72 ± 0.1403 SWIN-TF SWIN-TF RDPAC 98 .04 ± 0.1205 +0.33% 

GAT 97 .66 ± 0.0743 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF RDPAC 98 .24 ± 0.0950 +0.59% 

APPNP 98 .19 ± 0.1122 SWIN-TF SWIN-TF RDPAC 98 .43 ± 0.0485 +0.24% 

ARMA 97 .88 ± 0.0653 SWIN-TF SWIN-TF RDPAC 98 .23 ± 0.0591 +0.36% CUB200 Dataset GNN Baseline (SWIN-TF) Best Combination Relative Model without M.L. Features Graph M.L. Accuracy (%) Gain 

SGC 77 .51 ± 0.0181 CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF RDPAC 82.25 ± 0.0227 +6.12% 

GCN 76 .47 ± 0.0931 ConvNeXt SWIN-TF RDPAC 81 .32 ± 0.0717 +6.34% 

GAT 76 .08 ± 0.1542 SWIN-TF SWIN-TF RDPAC 80 .46 ± 0.2204 +5.76% 

APPNP 76 .33 ± 0.1566 SWIN-TF SWIN-TF RDPAC 81 .80 ± 0.0791 +7.17% 

ARMA 76 .05 ± 0.0796 SWIN-TF SWIN-TF RDPAC 82 .10 ± 0.0824 +7.96%  

> Table 10. Accuracy (%) comparison of the best descriptor combinations obtained under the same experimental settings and hyperparameters for our approach versus the ManifoldGCN [Valem et al., 2023] baseline.

Dataset ManifoldGCN [Valem et al., 2023] Ours (Best) Flowers 

CNN-ResNet 84.40 ± 0.0572 

99.73 ± 0.0033 

CNN-SENet 75.13 ± 0.0329 VIT-B16 96.95 ± 0.0228 SWIN-TF 99.58 ± 0.0052 

Corel5k 

CNN-ResNet 91.95 ± 0.0212 

98.53 ± 0.0090 

CNN-SENet 91.41 ± 0.0137 VIT-B16 95.29 ± 0.0372 DINOv2 95.11 ± 0.0971 SWIN-TF 98.23 ± 0.0165 

CUB200 

CNN-ResNet 51.81 ± 0.0340 

82.25 ± 0.0227 

CNN-SENet 37.54 ± 0.0236 VIT-B16 78.21 ± 0.0510 SWIN-TF 81.86 ± 0.0232 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

Table 11. Accuracy (%) obtained with multi-feature combinations using reciprocal kNN graphs and rank aggregation on the Flowers [Nils-back and Zisserman, 2006] dataset with SGC model. The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE SWIN-TF SWIN-TF 99.76 ± 0.0204 99.14 ± 0.0065 99.82 ± 0.0083 99.49 ± 0.0120 

CNN-ResNet 89.26 ± 0.0472 87.55 ± 0.0290 86.53 ± 0.0692 85.35 ± 0.0167 VIT-B16 97.88 ± 0.0111 96.02 ± 0.0065 97.23 ± 0.0073 96.79 ± 0.0116 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 99.46 ± 0.0217 98.18 ± 0.0061 99.28 ± 0.0061 98.54 ± 0.0061 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 99.30 ± 0.0061 98.67 ± 0.0217 99.41 ± 0.0061 98.22 ± 0.0137 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 92.86 ± 0.0211 86.50 ± 0.0179 89.29 ± 0.0235 87.38 ± 0.0196 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 99.32 ± 0.0137 98.85 ± 0.0095 99.62 ± 0.0040 98.25 ± 0.0061 CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 97.87 ± 0.0260 98.94 ± 0.0131 99.59 ± 0.0000 99.52 ± 0.0120 

CNN-ResNet 83.63 ± 0.0772 84.89 ± 0.0588 84.59 ± 0.0528 83.22 ± 0.0461 VIT-B16 96.61 ± 0.0131 95.78 ± 0.0083 97.31 ± 0.0116 96.78 ± 0.0337 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 97.02 ± 0.0438 96.34 ± 0.043 98.87 ± 0.0065 98.54 ± 0.0137 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 96.87 ± 0.0266 97.07 ± 0.0486 99.16 ± 0.0120 98.08 ± 0.0168 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 85.82 ± 0.0887 84.05 ± 0.0347 87.21 ± 0.0951 85.61 ± 0.0769 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 97.06 ± 0.0381 97.19 ± 0.0176 99.47 ± 0.0095 98.18 ± 0.0122 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 99.13 ± 0.0197 99.30 ± 0.0040 99.73 ± 0.0040 99.55 ± 0.0040 

CNN-ResNet 88.99 ± 0.0347 88.39 ± 0.0276 87.53 ± 0.0216 86.08 ± 0.0520 VIT-B16 96.58 ± 0.0131 95.84 ± 0.0228 97.21 ± 0.0189 96.78 ± 0.0317 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 98.76 ± 0.0245 98.37 ± 0.0273 99.24 ± 0.0040 98.64 ± 0.0061 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 98.81 ± 0.0158 98.60 ± 0.0167 99.30 ± 0.0061 98.57 ± 0.0089 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 92.15 ± 0.0546 87.71 ± 0.0480 90.24 ± 0.0108 87.88 ± 0.0340 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 98.89 ± 0.0089 98.67 ± 0.0133 99.48 ± 0.0061 98.52 ± 0.0052 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 SWIN-TF 99.54 ± 0.0280 99.26 ± 0.0089 99.81 ± 0.0073 99.54 ± 0.0061 

CNN-ResNet 88.78 ± 0.0275 88.02 ± 0.0329 87.36 ± 0.0299 85.85 ± 0.0440 VIT-B16 97.69 ± 0.0381 96.14 ± 0.0083 97.49 ± 0.0186 97.06 ± 0.0167 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 99.18 ± 0.0235 98.15 ± 0.0323 99.25 ± 0.0080 98.60 ± 0.0033 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 99.01 ± 0.0266 98.63 ± 0.0152 99.42 ± 0.0120 98.49 ± 0.0098 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 91.79 ± 0.0250 87.55 ± 0.0168 89.73 ± 0.0168 88.06 ± 0.0209 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 99.02 ± 0.0108 98.79 ± 0.0174 99.61 ± 0.0065 98.57 ± 0.0182 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 99.43 ± 0.0337 99.23 ± 0.0095 99.84 ± 0.0033 99.51 ± 0.0083 

CNN-ResNet 87.29 ± 0.0603 87.24 ± 0.0385 86.49 ± 0.0908 85.12 ± 0.0385 VIT-B16 97.80 ± 0.0111 96.17 ± 0.0061 97.68 ± 0.0095 97.03 ± 0.0108 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 98.96 ± 0.0246 98.12 ± 0.0179 99.22 ± 0.0061 98.62 ± 0.0122 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 98.66 ± 0.0261 98.53 ± 0.0040 99.33 ± 0.0133 98.40 ± 0.0171 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 89.49 ± 0.0645 86.38 ± 0.0514 89.00 ± 0.0248 87.54 ± 0.0497 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 98.70 ± 0.0430 98.70 ± 0.0158 99.55 ± 0.0176 98.47 ± 0.0095 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 99.10 ± 0.0211 99.19 ± 0.0122 99.81 ± 0.0083 99.53 ± 0.0083 

CNN-ResNet 84.94 ± 0.1048 86.71 ± 0.0213 85.95 ± 0.0475 84.17 ± 0.0443 VIT-B16 97.31 ± 0.0508 96.08 ± 0.0231 97.60 ± 0.0191 96.94 ± 0.0083 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 98.46 ± 0.0340 98.07 ± 0.0120 99.28 ± 0.0095 98.70 ± 0.0083 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 98.12 ± 0.0452 98.01 ± 0.0288 99.34 ± 0.0065 98.58 ± 0.0152 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 84.97 ± 0.1080 85.01 ± 0.0581 88.27 ± 0.0280 86.28 ± 0.0475 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 98.26 ± 0.0434 98.02 ± 0.0316 99.60 ± 0.0146 98.66 ± 0.0122 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF 99.53 ± 0.0219 99.23 ± 0.0089 99.85 ± 0.0040 99.51 ± 0.0083 

CNN-ResNet 87.62 ± 0.0196 87.46 ± 0.1051 86.57 ± 0.1100 85.12 ± 0.0395 VIT-B16 97.64 ± 0.0176 96.10 ± 0.0235 97.37 ± 0.0213 96.94 ± 0.0174 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 99.14 ± 0.0308 98.13 ± 0.0122 99.26 ± 0.0073 98.60 ± 0.0095 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 98.90 ± 0.0240 98.56 ± 0.0158 99.40 ± 0.0203 98.41 ± 0.0255 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 90.08 ± 0.0317 86.55 ± 0.0528 89.19 ± 0.0381 87.65 ± 0.0509 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 98.95 ± 0.0155 98.77 ± 0.0349 99.60 ± 0.0120 98.46 ± 0.0193 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

Table 12. Accuracy (%) obtained with multi-feature combinations using reciprocal kNN graphs and rank aggregation on the Corel5k [Liu et al., 2010] dataset with SGC model. The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE VIT-B16 VIT-B16 95.11 ± 0.0215 95.94 ± 0.0392 95.64 ± 0.0343 95.61 ± 0.0148 DINOv2 96.82 ± 0.0108 96.73 ± 0.0115 96.77 ± 0.0168 96.78 ± 0.0107 SWIN-TF 97.93 ± 0.0198 98.19 ± 0.0102 98.52 ± 0.0103 98.38 ± 0.0045 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 96.64 ± 0.0134 96.34 ± 0.0128 96.45 ± 0.0195 96.42 ± 0.0202 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 97.41 ± 0.0068 97.39 ± 0.0152 97.71 ± 0.0046 97.76 ± 0.0133 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 97.04 ± 0.0087 96.83 ± 0.0064 96.77 ± 0.0117 96.86 ± 0.0197 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 97.01 ± 0.0084 96.85 ± 0.0064 96.86 ± 0.0155 96.88 ± 0.0202 DINOv2 VIT-B16 95.57 ± 0.0485 95.39 ± 0.0517 94.63 ± 0.2286 94.70 ± 0.0697 DINOv2 95.34 ± 0.0298 95.70 ± 0.0316 95.56 ± 0.0584 95.23 ± 0.0797 SWIN-TF 97.41 ± 0.0257 97.62 ± 0.0731 97.88 ± 0.1169 97.54 ± 0.0676 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 94.64 ± 0.0237 94.99 ± 0.0779 94.85 ± 0.0389 94.76 ± 0.0821 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 97.05 ± 0.0319 96.75 ± 0.0487 96.79 ± 0.1050 97.12 ± 0.0391 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 95.47 ± 0.0520 95.71 ± 0.0794 95.37 ± 0.0742 95.36 ± 0.0717 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 95.46 ± 0.0659 95.77 ± 0.0895 95.50 ± 0.0804 95.36 ± 0.0549 SWIN-TF VIT-B16 95.98 ± 0.0323 95.50 ± 0.0070 95.42 ± 0.0106 95.21 ± 0.0694 DINOv2 96.34 ± 0.0491 96.08 ± 0.0044 96.34 ± 0.0073 96.19 ± 0.0610 SWIN-TF 98.01 ± 0.0323 97.81 ± 0.0762 98.34 ± 0.0274 97.94 ± 0.0567 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 96.13 ± 0.1079 95.89 ± 0.1077 95.85 ± 0.0045 95.78 ± 0.0637 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 97.61 ± 0.0770 97.29 ± 0.0117 97.21 ± 0.0283 97.57 ± 0.0146 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 96.66 ± 0.0625 96.44 ± 0.1031 96.42 ± 0.0184 96.07 ± 0.0595 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 96.66 ± 0.0744 96.40 ± 0.1085 96.48 ± 0.0575 96.18 ± 0.0644 VIT-B16+DINOv2 VIT-B16 95.00 ± 0.0717 94.97 ± 0.1167 94.42 ± 0.0931 94.33 ± 0.1407 DINOv2 94.87 ± 0.1089 95.30 ± 0.1702 95.14 ± 0.1837 95.07 ± 0.1281 SWIN-TF 96.48 ± 0.0942 97.12 ± 0.1322 97.36 ± 0.1463 97.45 ± 0.0856 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 93.96 ± 0.1089 94.39 ± 0.0842 94.50 ± 0.1282 94.51 ± 0.1056 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 96.03 ± 0.0975 96.07 ± 0.0595 96.29 ± 0.1589 96.65 ± 0.0683 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 94.76 ± 0.0984 95.05 ± 0.1208 94.82 ± 0.0540 94.98 ± 0.1366 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 94.71 ± 0.0971 95.13 ± 0.1930 95.04 ± 0.0943 94.95 ± 0.1117 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 VIT-B16 96.00 ± 0.0389 95.90 ± 0.1026 95.64 ± 0.1250 95.77 ± 0.0763 DINOv2 96.74 ± 0.0505 96.68 ± 0.0993 96.77 ± 0.0543 96.57 ± 0.0634 SWIN-TF 97.97 ± 0.0432 98.04 ± 0.0661 98.37 ± 0.0798 98.34 ± 0.0516 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 96.51 ± 0.0404 96.16 ± 0.0651 96.04 ± 0.0485 96.00 ± 0.0582 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 97.44 ± 0.0711 97.38 ± 0.0160 97.63 ± 0.1198 97.69 ± 0.0393 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 96.89 ± 0.0521 96.62 ± 0.0852 96.51 ± 0.0525 96.51 ± 0.0466 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 96.87 ± 0.0131 96.64 ± 0.0694 96.56 ± 0.0382 96.50 ± 0.0710 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 VIT-B16 95.45 ± 0.0784 94.98 ± 0.1163 94.64 ± 0.1430 94.61 ± 0.1504 DINOv2 95.30 ± 0.0702 95.51 ± 0.1464 95.60 ± 0.1438 95.28 ± 0.0737 SWIN-TF 96.99 ± 0.1227 97.28 ± 0.0677 97.75 ± 0.2602 97.53 ± 0.1127 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 94.51 ± 0.1443 94.92 ± 0.2022 94.93 ± 0.0885 94.88 ± 0.1135 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 96.45 ± 0.0504 96.47 ± 0.1226 96.48 ± 0.0847 96.84 ± 0.1669 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 95.38 ± 0.0642 95.47 ± 0.0937 95.48 ± 0.1255 95.24 ± 0.1483 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 95.37 ± 0.1059 95.54 ± 0.1089 95.41 ± 0.1620 95.23 ± 0.1955 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 VIT-B16 95.36 ± 0.0701 95.03 ± 0.1631 94.47 ± 0.1042 94.74 ± 0.1470 DINOv2 95.34 ± 0.0806 95.56 ± 0.1245 95.68 ± 0.1567 95.34 ± 0.1266 SWIN-TF 97.06 ± 0.0812 97.36 ± 0.0627 97.74 ± 0.1474 97.52 ± 0.0654 

VIT-B16+DINOv2 94.66 ± 0.0868 94.83 ± 0.0490 94.82 ± 0.0833 94.75 ± 0.1345 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 96.75 ± 0.1241 96.53 ± 0.1229 96.69 ± 0.0551 96.98 ± 0.1579 SWIN-TF+DINOv2 95.38 ± 0.0660 95.50 ± 0.0916 95.28 ± 0.1160 95.26 ± 0.0881 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+DINOv2 95.40 ± 0.1133 95.68 ± 0.1476 95.24 ± 0.1327 95.34 ± 0.1060 Graph Neural Networks for Semi-Supervised Image Classification with Multi-Feature Aggregation Gapski et al. 2026 

Table 13. Accuracy (%) obtained with multi-feature combinations using reciprocal kNN graphs and rank aggregation on the CUB200 [Wah et al., 2011] dataset with SGC model. The highest accuracy is highlighted in blue. 

Features Graph No Manifold Learning LHRR RDPAC BFSTREE CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 53.84 ± 0.0174 52.13 ± 0.0376 52.94 ± 0.0242 52.71 ± 0.0366 SWIN-TF 77.95 ± 0.0085 79.05 ± 0.0381 82.65 ± 0.0181 80.72 ± 0.0228 

VIT-B16 78.66 ± 0.0532 77.58 ± 0.0180 79.30 ± 0.0097 78.64 ± 0.0065 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 76.31 ± 0.0352 73.08 ± 0.0277 80.08 ± 0.0204 77.66 ± 0.0387 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 77.58 ± 0.0428 74.93 ± 0.0484 81.57 ± 0.0292 79.45 ± 0.0271 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 64.72 ± 0.0426 60.80 ± 0.0256 66.02 ± 0.0436 63.76 ± 0.0176 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 77.28 ± 0.0332 73.83 ± 0.0409 81.00 ± 0.0163 78.68 ± 0.0239 SWIN-TF CNN-ResNet 63.60 ± 0.0079 55.16 ± 0.0208 55.46 ± 0.0158 54.96 ± 0.0067 SWIN-TF 82.05 ± 0.0067 80.54 ± 0.0194 82.61 ± 0.0154 80.75 ± 0.0199 

VIT-B16 81.02 ± 0.0141 78.74 ± 0.0212 79.55 ± 0.0152 78.66 ± 0.0155 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 80.28 ± 0.0027 78.40 ± 0.0285 80.28 ± 0.0057 78.39 ± 0.0089 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 81.40 ± 0.0071 79.63 ± 0.0231 81.61 ± 0.0119 79.59 ± 0.0075 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 72.83 ± 0.0094 67.14 ± 0.0081 68.46 ± 0.0118 66.37 ± 0.0087 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 81.19 ± 0.0046 79.35 ± 0.0059 81.29 ± 0.0166 79.34 ± 0.0129 VIT-B16 CNN-ResNet 61.85 ± 0.0503 56.19 ± 0.0420 55.66 ± 0.0345 53.97 ± 0.0916 SWIN-TF 81.66 ± 0.0182 81.52 ± 0.0383 83.33 ± 0.0376 81.61 ± 0.0424 

VIT-B16 78.35 ± 0.0184 78.54 ± 0.0177 79.32 ± 0.0214 78.25 ± 0.0471 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 79.71 ± 0.0129 79.15 ± 0.0304 81.04 ± 0.0160 79.06 ± 0.0295 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 80.87 ± 0.0093 80.49 ± 0.0299 82.32 ± 0.0350 80.30 ± 0.0208 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 69.84 ± 0.0240 67.15 ± 0.0506 67.76 ± 0.0277 65.20 ± 0.0238 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 80.52 ± 0.0163 79.91 ± 0.0133 81.86 ± 0.0159 80.02 ± 0.0223 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 62.29 ± 0.0047 55.49 ± 0.0024 55.78 ± 0.0017 55.21 ± 0.0048 SWIN-TF 81.55 ± 0.0043 80.78 ± 0.0035 82.86 ± 0.0041 81.15 ± 0.0031 

VIT-B16 80.84 ± 0.0017 79.06 ± 0.0067 79.86 ± 0.0019 79.01 ± 0.0050 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 79.69 ± 0.0026 78.16 ± 0.0027 80.38 ± 0.0070 78.57 ± 0.0036 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 80.77 ± 0.0040 79.52 ± 0.0097 81.89 ± 0.0037 79.74 ± 0.0020 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 71.13 ± 0.0063 66.58 ± 0.0055 68.06 ± 0.0052 66.00 ± 0.0080 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 80.51 ± 0.0041 79.01 ± 0.0027 81.45 ± 0.0034 79.44 ± 0.0024 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 CNN-ResNet 63.70 ± 0.0078 56.12 ± 0.0045 56.52 ± 0.0068 55.68 ± 0.0043 SWIN-TF 81.79 ± 0.0064 80.91 ± 0.0026 82.96 ± 0.0030 81.28 ± 0.0064 

VIT-B16 80.87 ± 0.0047 79.20 ± 0.0032 79.92 ± 0.0046 79.01 ± 0.0055 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 79.91 ± 0.0044 78.44 ± 0.0055 80.54 ± 0.0063 78.70 ± 0.0033 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 81.08 ± 0.0035 79.82 ± 0.0037 81.92 ± 0.0063 79.80 ± 0.0069 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 72.52 ± 0.0105 67.42 ± 0.0053 68.87 ± 0.0097 66.82 ± 0.0055 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 80.73 ± 0.0061 79.33 ± 0.0094 81.60 ± 0.0042 79.62 ± 0.0027 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 56.41 ± 0.0176 53.97 ± 0.0125 54.00 ± 0.0117 53.04 ± 0.0097 SWIN-TF 79.69 ± 0.0094 80.97 ± 0.0085 82.91 ± 0.0054 81.37 ± 0.0099 

VIT-B16 78.27 ± 0.0067 78.32 ± 0.0061 79.48 ± 0.0070 78.49 ± 0.0035 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 77.42 ± 0.0070 76.99 ± 0.0074 80.37 ± 0.0069 78.36 ± 0.0057 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 79.01 ± 0.0066 78.70 ± 0.0077 81.84 ± 0.0111 79.90 ± 0.0052 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 64.87 ± 0.0032 63.69 ± 0.0051 65.71 ± 0.0044 63.62 ± 0.0262 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 78.33 ± 0.0067 77.84 ± 0.0109 81.37 ± 0.0088 79.29 ± 0.0084 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet CNN-ResNet 62.59 ± 0.0057 55.56 ± 0.0069 55.80 ± 0.0095 55.25 ± 0.0066 SWIN-TF 81.86 ± 0.0058 80.86 ± 0.0084 82.91 ± 0.0064 81.19 ± 0.0032 

VIT-B16 80.83 ± 0.0082 79.06 ± 0.0085 79.83 ± 0.0079 78.95 ± 0.0036 SWIN-TF+CNN-ResNet 79.91 ± 0.0043 78.32 ± 0.0038 80.46 ± 0.0088 78.61 ± 0.0057 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16 81.03 ± 0.0059 79.74 ± 0.0054 81.94 ± 0.0041 79.77 ± 0.0089 VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 71.28 ± 0.0067 66.69 ± 0.0098 68.04 ± 0.0028 66.02 ± 0.0132 SWIN-TF+VIT-B16+CNN-ResNet 80.74 ± 0.0038 79.19 ± 0.0050 81.50 ± 0.0045 79.47 ± 0.0028 

Table 14. Accuracy (%) for multi-feature experiments on SGC comparing best single results without manifold learning (M.L.) and best combinations for each dataset. Relative gain is computed as the percentage improvement of the best combination over the best single result without M.L. 

Dataset Best Single without M.L. Best Combination Relative Statistical Tests Feature Accuracy (%) Features Graph M.L. Accuracy (%) Gain Wilcoxon p Cohen’s d

Flowers SWIN-TF 99.76 ± 0.0204 SWIN-TF + VIT-B16 + CNN-ResNet SWIN-TF RDPAC 99.85 ± 0.0040 +0.09% 1.30 × 10 −3 0.6797 Corel5k SWIN-TF 98.01 ± 0.0323 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF RDPAC 98.52 ± 0.0103 +0.52% 6.00 × 10 −8 1.2836 CUB200 SWIN-TF 82.05 ± 0.0067 VIT-B16 SWIN-TF RDPAC 83.33 ± 0.0376 +1.56% 7.55 × 10 −10 4.5326